begin https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA
begin https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/
Skip to main content

An official website of the United States government

Here's how you know
Search
Log in

Primary site navigation

Search PMC Full-Text Archive
Search in PMC
Journal List 
User Guide
As a library, NLM provides access to scientific literature. Inclusion in an NLM database does not imply endorsement of, or agreement with, the contents by NLM or the National Institutes of Health.
Learn more: PMC Disclaimer | PMC Copyright Notice
Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Dec 19;2014(12):CD010846. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD010846.pub2
Creatine for women in pregnancy for neuroprotection of the fetus
Hayley Dickinson 1, Emily Bain 2, Dominic Wilkinson 3,✉, Philippa Middleton 2, Caroline A Crowther 2,4, David W Walker 1
Editor: Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group
Author information
Article notes
Copyright and License information
PMCID: PMC10657457  PMID: 25523279
This article is an update of the article with doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD010846.
Abstract
Background

Creatine is an amino acid derivative and, when phosphorylated (phosphocreatine), is involved in replenishing adenosine triphosphate (ATP) via the creatine kinase reaction. Cells obtain creatine from a diet rich in fish, meat, or dairy and by endogenous synthesis from the amino acids arginine, glycine, and methionine in an approximate 50:50 ratio. Animal studies have shown that creatine may provide fetal neuroprotection when given to the mother through her diet in pregnancy. It is important to assess whether maternally administered creatine in human pregnancy (at times of known, suspected, or potential fetal compromise) may offer neuroprotection to the fetus and may accordingly reduce the risk of adverse neurodevelopmental outcomes, such as cerebral palsy and associated impairments and disabilities arising from fetal brain injury.

Objectives

To assess the effects of creatine when used for neuroprotection of the fetus.

Search methods

We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 November 2014).

Selection criteria

We planned to include all published, unpublished, and ongoing randomised trials and quasi‐randomised trials. We planned to include studies reported as abstracts only as well as full‐text manuscripts. Trials using a cross‐over or cluster‐randomised design were not eligible for inclusion.

We planned to include trials comparing creatine given to women in pregnancy for fetal neuroprotection (regardless of the route, timing, dose, or duration of administration) with placebo, no treatment, or with an alternative agent aimed at providing fetal neuroprotection. We also planned to include comparisons of different regimens for administration of creatine.

Data collection and analysis

We identified no completed or ongoing randomised controlled trials.

Main results

We found no randomised controlled trials for inclusion in this review.

Authors' conclusions

As we did not identify any randomised controlled trials for inclusion in this review, we are unable to comment on implications for practice. Although evidence from animal studies has supported a fetal neuroprotective role for creatine when administered to the mother during pregnancy, no trials assessing creatine in pregnant women for fetal neuroprotection have been published to date. If creatine is established as safe for the mother and her fetus, research efforts should first be directed towards randomised trials comparing creatine with either no intervention (ideally using a placebo), or with alternative agents aimed at providing fetal neuroprotection (including magnesium sulphate for the very preterm infant). If appropriate, these trials should then be followed by studies comparing different creatine regimens (dosage and duration of exposure). Such trials should be high quality and adequately powered to evaluate maternal and infant short and longer‐term outcomes (including neurodevelopmental disabilities such as cerebral palsy), and should consider utilisation/costs of health care.

Plain language summary

Creatine for women in pregnancy for neuroprotection of the fetus

This review did not find any randomised controlled trials that looked at whether creatine, given to a mother in pregnancy, can help protect her baby's brain.

The developing fetal brain is very vulnerable to injury, which may arise from infection in the uterus, insufficient blood flow to the placenta, and long‐term reduced oxygen in the baby's blood. Damage to the developing brain during pregnancy can lead to death of the baby, or, if the baby survives, to life‐long problems such as hearing, sight and speech disorders, intellectual disability, and cerebral palsy.

Creatine is involved with cellular energy production and how energy is stored for use in the body's tissue. Its primary function is to regenerate adenosine diphosphate (ADP) to adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in body tissues with high and fluctuating energy demands. Adults obtain approximately half of their daily requirement of creatine from a diet containing fresh fish, meat, and other dairy products. The body makes the remainder of the creatine from amino acids (the building blocks of proteins). Experiments in animals have suggested that creatine might be able to protect the developing fetal brain from injury when given to the mother during pregnancy. Human studies of creatine, outside of pregnancy (such as in children following traumatic brain injury, and in adults with neurodegenerative conditions), have been promising, suggesting creatine may be able to protect the brain, and these studies have been reassuring, with an absence of any detected harm.

We found no completed (or ongoing) randomised controlled trials that assessed whether creatine given to the mother at times of known, suspected, or potential fetal compromise during pregnancy helps to protect the baby's brain. Randomised controlled trials are needed to establish whether creatine can protect against brain injury for the baby in the womb. The babies in these trials need to be followed up over a long period so that we can monitor the effects of creatine on their development into childhood and adulthood.

Background
Description of the condition
Fetal brain injury: causes and consequences

The developing fetal brain is vulnerable to damage arising from hypoxia, infection/inflammation, and release of excitatory amino acids, and thus compromise of placental perfusion (via uterine or umbilical blood flow), trans‐placental oxygen delivery, or increased pro‐inflammatory cytokines in the intrauterine environment, increases the risk of brain injury (and/or abnormal brain development) for both the preterm (before 37 weeks' gestation) and term fetus (Rees 2011). Fetal brain injury is a major contributor to perinatal mortality and morbidity worldwide (Jensen 2003), with such injury being associated with a spectrum of life‐long functional and behavioural disorders.

Injury to both the preterm and term developing brain is known to be associated with life‐long and devastating sequelae, such as hearing, sight and speech disorders, seizures, intellectual disability, and motor impairments that may manifest as cerebral palsy (Vexler 2001). Cerebral palsy is an umbrella term, describing "a group of disorders of the development of movement and posture, causing activity limitations, which are attributed to non progressive disturbances that occurred in the developing fetal or infant brain" (Bax 2005). Cerebral palsy is a complex neurological condition, and is often found alongside cognitive, communication, sight and hearing impairments, or epilepsy, pain, behaviour, and sleep disorders (Novak 2012). It is the most common physical disability in childhood, and the most severe physical disability within the spectrum of developmental delay. While for a small number of individuals brain injury acquired after birth may lead to the development of cerebral palsy, for the vast majority (94%) with cerebral palsy, the injury leading to this condition occurs to the fetal brain in utero or to the infant brain before one month of age (ACPR Group 2009).

While a number of causes of fetal brain injury have been recognised (such as intrauterine infection, placental insufficiency, and chronic fetal hypoxia leading to metabolic derangement), episodes of cerebral hypoxia‐ischaemia (reduced oxygen in the blood combined with reduced blood flow to the brain) appear to be important in a great number of cases (whether being acute, chronic, associated with inflammation, or as an antecedent of preterm birth) (du Plessis 2002; Rees 2011; Volpe 2001). Similarly, a great number of potential predisposing factors and causal pathways for cerebral palsy and associated impairments and disabilities have been identified. While it has been shown that neuronal cell injury predominates in term infants, and cerebral white matter injury predominates in premature infants (Volpe 2001), recent evidence suggests that white matter injury is also present in term infants, and grey matter injury in preterm infants (Rees 2011).

Though preterm birth has been recognised as one of the most important risk factors for cerebral palsy (Blair 2006; Jacobsson 2002; McIntyre 2013) (with preterm infants being at an increased risk of white matter injury such as periventricular leukomalacia, and of intraventricular haemorrhage (Larroque 2003)), approximately 60% of all children with cerebral palsy are born at term (ACPR Group 2009; McIntyre 2013; Wu 2003). For infants born at term, antenatal or intrapartum risk factors for cerebral palsy consistently identified in the literature have included small‐for‐gestational age, low birthweight, and placental abnormalities (Blair 2006; McIntyre 2013). Maternal bleeding in the second and third trimesters (McIntyre 2013), hypertension in pregnancy (McIntyre 2013), pre‐eclampsia (Blair 2006; McIntyre 2013), perinatal infection (such as chorioamnionitis) (Blair 2006; McIntyre 2013; Wu 2003), and increasing fetal plurality (Blair 2006) have each been shown to increase the risk of cerebral palsy and associated neurosensory disorders across all gestational ages. For term infants, intrapartum birth asphyxia (a condition resulting from deprivation of oxygen to a newborn, lasting long enough to cause physical harm) has also been shown to be an important predictor of brain injury and later disability (Dilenge 2001; McIntyre 2013).

Following cerebral hypoxia and ischaemia, it is believed that a sequence of pathophysiological events ultimately leading to cell death (via necrosis or apoptosis) are triggered, involving for example, the overstimulation of N‐methyl‐D‐aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptors, the accumulation of calcium in cells, and the activation of deleterious events mediated by calcium (including the stimulation of enzymes such as nitric oxide synthase, and the production of oxygen free radicals) (Jensen 2003; Johnston 2000; Rees 2011). Studies of the developing fetal brain have shown that the nature and severity of insult, and gestational age at the time of injury, can greatly influence the subsequent neuropathology. An important common feature of the fetal brain in all such situations, however, is the depletion of cellular energy.

To date, there is minimal knowledge regarding effective strategies to prevent, reduce, or remove the risk of antenatally acquired fetal brain injury and, accordingly, prevent the potentially devastating life‐long consequences for the infant, child, and adult. Magnesium sulphate, when given to the mother prior to very preterm birth, is one of the first antenatal interventions shown to be effective in reducing the risk of death and cerebral palsy for the infant (Doyle 2009). While the precise mechanism of action of magnesium sulphate for neuroprotection of the fetus is not known, experimental evidence and animal studies support several possible neuroprotective effects, for example, magnesium has been shown to prevent excitotoxic calcium‐induced cell injury, through non‐competitive voltage‐dependent inhibition of the NMDA receptor to glutamate (thereby reducing calcium influx) (Marret 2007). In the Doyle 2009 Cochrane review, magnesium sulphate, when administered for the mother prior to preterm birth, was associated with a 32% relative reduction in the risk of cerebral palsy (risk ratio (RR) 0.68, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.54 to 0.87; five trials; 6145 infants), with 63 babies needing to be treated to benefit one baby by avoiding cerebral palsy, and 42 babies treated to benefit one baby by avoiding death or cerebral palsy (Doyle 2009). While the benefits of this therapy for preterm infants were established in this Cochrane review, not all infants exposed to therapy showed improved outcomes (the absolute risk of cerebral palsy for infants exposed to antenatal magnesium sulphate was 3.4% and 5.0% for infants unexposed) (Doyle 2009). Currently, there is insufficient evidence to assess the efficacy and safety of magnesium sulphate when administered to women for neuroprotection of the term fetus (Nguyen 2013), and there are potential (though commonly minor) adverse effects for the mother associated with this treatment (Bain 2013). At present, other agents being investigated for providing antenatal fetal neuroprotection include maternally administered melatonin (Wilkinson 2013) and allopurinol (Kaandorp 2010; Kaandorp 2012); and while it has previously been shown that antenatal corticosteroids, when given prior to preterm birth, can reduce the risk of cerebroventricular haemorrhage, respiratory distress, necrotising enterocolitis, and death for the neonate, the evidence for benefits into childhood, including reductions in neurodevelopmental delay and cerebral palsy, are less clear (Roberts 2006).

Following recent advances in understanding the mechanisms of fetal brain injury and in identifying predisposing factors, further promise has been raised for the development of primary preventative strategies, based on preventing the complex sequence of pathophysiological and biochemical events that induce irreversible injury. Ideally, a primary preventative agent would be cost‐effective (and/or inexpensive), have a low potential for toxicity, be easily administered to women either in the inpatient or outpatient setting (i.e. available to those with low obstetric monitoring), and be broadly applicable, such that it may offer protection to both the preterm and near‐term fetal brain in a range of obstetric situations, including known or suspected maternal/fetal compromise.

Description of the intervention
Creatine

Creatine is a simple guanidine compound, which may be synthesised endogenously from the amino acids arginine, glycine, and methionine, in the liver, kidney, and pancreas (Adcock 2002). It may also be ingested, through the consumption of dairy, fish, and meat, and is found throughout the human body, including in the brain (Rees 2011). Creatine is taken up into tissues via the creatine transporter and stored as creatine or phosphocreatine. Phosphocreatine is readily converted to creatine via creatine kinase, in a reversible reaction that yields a high energy phosphate allowing the conversion of adenosine diphosphate (ADP) to adenosine triphosphate (ATP) (Wallimann 1992).

A number of studies have demonstrated that creatine has neuroprotective and antioxidant properties, suggesting benefits for neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Parkinson's disease, traumatic brain disease, and adult stroke; conditions encompassing hypoxia and excitotoxic‐mediated brain injury (Sullivan 2000; Zhu 2004). A Cochrane review that included three trials assessing creatine for improving amyotrophic lateral sclerosis survival, or for slowing progression, found no clear evidence to support meaningful improvements. Importantly, however, creatine was found to be well tolerated, with no serious adverse effects observed (Pastula 2012). A new Cochrane review will assess the efficacy and safety of creatine when used alone, or as an adjunctive treatment, for Parkinson's disease (Wang 2012).

How the intervention might work
Creatine for fetal neuroprotection

There is currently increasing support for the use of creatine as a therapy for protecting tissues against injury; particularly, there is growing evidence of creatine's potential to act as a neuroprotective agent (Wallimann 2011). One of the primary mechanisms of injury arising from severe hypoxia at birth (particularly for the brain) involves mitochondrial dysfunction, leading to impaired energy metabolism and oxidative stress (Calvert 2005; Wyss 2002). It has been suggested that preservation of ATP through increase of the intracellular pool of creatine and phosphocreatine can protect the brain from such injuries (Beal 2011; Wallimann 1992). In addition to its role as an 'energy buffer' (providing energy in the absence of oxygen), creatine appears to have antioxidant properties, scavenging free radicals (Lawler 2002; Sestili 2006). Creatine has also been shown to improve the recovery of cerebral blood flow following the cessation of a hypoxic episode (Prass 2006).

Hypoxic‐ischaemic models of neonatal brain damage in rodents have provided support for the neuroprotective effects of creatine. Subcutaneous injections of creatine given to neonatal rodents prior to transient severe hypoxia‐ischaemia have been shown to reduce brain oedema (Adcock 2002). Recently, the supplementation of the maternal diet with creatine, from mid‐pregnancy until term, has been shown to not only increase the concentration of creatine and phosphocreatine in rodent fetal tissues, but also to improve survival and postnatal growth of the offspring after an acute hypoxic episode at birth (Ireland 2008). Maternal creatine supplementation during pregnancy has been shown to prevent lipid peroxidation and apoptosis in the brains of rodent offspring following intrapartum hypoxia (Ireland 2011). It has been proposed that creatine's ability to protect mitochondrial function may account for this observed neuroprotective effect (Ireland 2011).

In addition to offering neuroprotection, maternal creatine supplementation has been shown to protect the newborn diaphragm from intrapartum hypoxia‐induced damage (Cannata 2010). Rodent offspring born to mothers who received creatine supplementation from mid‐pregnancy have been shown to be less likely to incur diaphragmatic damage (including muscular atrophy and contractile dysfunction) following hypoxia, as compared with control offspring (Cannata 2010). Most recently, maternal creatine supplementation has been shown to protect the newborn kidney from intrapartum hypoxia‐induced damage. Specifically, creatine given to the mother throughout the second half of pregnancy has been shown to be able to prevent structural damage to the glomeruli and tubules of the kidney of the newborn spiny mouse (Ellery 2013).

Importantly, as with any intervention during pregnancy, the impact for the mother must be considered, along with the impact on the normal development of the fetus. Studies have recently assessed the impact of maternal creatine supplementation from mid‐gestation on the capacity for creatine synthesis and transport in the newborn spiny mouse; encouragingly, long‐term supplementation was not shown to impact on the normal development of these pathways (Dickinson 2013). Similarly, to date, no effects of maternal creatine supplementation on maternal body composition have been observed when creatine‐fed pregnant spiny mice have been compared with control‐fed spiny mice (unpublished observations; Dickinson/Walker laboratory, manuscript under review). While there has been some concern over possible deleterious effects of long‐term, high‐dose creatine supplementation on kidney function, recent work, measuring chromium‐ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (51‐Cr‐EDTA) clearance, has indicated no negative impact of creatine supplementation on kidney function in human type 2 diabetic patients (Gualano 2011). Studies measuring urine creatinine (as compared with 51‐Cr‐EDTA), as a marker of kidney function, should be interpreted with caution, given that creatinine is a breakdown product of creatine phosphate and creatine in muscle; thus the presence of high urine creatinine would be expected during periods of high creatine consumption, and is not necessarily indicative of kidney damage (Gualano 2011).

In light of the current evidence, it is considered plausible that creatine could protect the human fetal brain against injury associated with hypoxia‐ischaemia, excitotoxicity or oxidative stress, without causing harm to the fetus or the mother. It is important to assess whether maternally administered creatine (at the time of known, suspected, or potential fetal compromise) may offer fetal neuroprotection and may accordingly reduce the risk of cerebral palsy and associated impairments and disabilities arising from fetal brain injury.

Why it is important to do this review

Creatine has been shown to have neuroprotective properties (such as providing cellular energy in the absence of oxygen (Beal 2011; Wallimann 1992), demonstrating antioxidant effects (Lawler 2002; Sestili 2006), and improving cerebral blood flow following hypoxia (Prass 2006)). Animal studies have supported a fetal neuroprotective role for creatine when administered maternally (Ireland 2008; Ireland 2011). It is important to assess whether creatine, when given to pregnant women, can reduce the risk of neurological impairments and disabilities (including cerebral palsy) associated with fetal brain injury, and death, for the preterm or term fetus.

This review will complement the Cochrane review 'Melatonin for women in pregnancy for neuroprotection of the fetus' (Wilkinson 2013), which is assessing melatonin as a novel agent for preterm and/or term fetal neuroprotection, and the Cochrane reviews assessing magnesium sulphate for neuroprotection of the preterm (Doyle 2009) and term fetus (Nguyen 2013).

Objectives

To assess the effects of creatine when used for neuroprotection of the fetus.

Methods
Criteria for considering studies for this review
Types of studies

All published, unpublished, and ongoing randomised trials and quasi‐randomised trials assessing creatine for fetal neuroprotection ‐ although none were identified. We would have included studies reported as abstracts only as well as those with full‐text manuscripts. Studies using a cross‐over or cluster‐randomised design were not eligible for inclusion.

Types of participants

Pregnant women regardless of whether the pregnancy was single or multiple, and regardless of their gestational age. This could include, for example, trials of women with preterm or growth‐restricted fetuses, with chorioamnionitis, with prelabour rupture of membranes, with pre‐eclampsia, or with actual/suspected antenatal/intrapartum fetal distress.

Types of interventions

Trials where creatine was administered to pregnant women, and compared with a placebo or no treatment, or with an alternative agent aimed at providing fetal neuroprotection (e.g. magnesium sulphate or melatonin). We also planned to include trials where creatine was administered to pregnant women where the indication for use was not fetal neuroprotection, where information had been reported on the review's pre‐specified outcomes. We planned to include studies where different regimens for administration of creatine were compared. We planned to include studies regardless of the route (i.e. oral, intramuscular, or intravenous), timing, dose, and duration of creatine administration.

Types of outcome measures
Primary outcomes

We chose primary outcomes that were felt to be most representative of the clinically important measures of effectiveness and safety, including serious outcomes and adverse effects.

For the infant/child

Death or any neurosensory disability (at latest time reported) (this combined outcome recognises the potential for competing risks of death or survival with neurological problems)

Death (defined as all fetal, neonatal, or later death) (at latest time reported)

Neurosensory disability (*any of cerebral palsy, blindness, deafness, developmental delay/intellectual impairment) (at latest time reported)

*Definitions

Cerebral palsy: abnormality of tone with motor dysfunction (as diagnosed at 18 months of age or later)

Blindness: corrected visual acuity worse than 6/60 in the better eye

Deafness: hearing loss requiring amplification or worse

Developmental delay/intellectual impairment: a standardised score less than minus one standard deviation (SD) below the mean (or as defined by trialists)

For the mother

Any adverse effects severe enough to stop treatment (as defined by trialists)

Secondary outcomes

Secondary outcomes include other measures of effectiveness and safety.

For the fetus/infant

Abnormal fetal and umbilical Doppler ultrasound study (as defined by trialists)

Fetal death

Neonatal death

Gestational age at birth

Birthweight (absolute and centile)

Apgar score (less than seven at five minutes)

Active resuscitation via an endotracheal tube at birth

Use and duration of respiratory support (mechanical ventilation or continuous positive airways pressure, or both)

Intraventricular haemorrhage (including severity – grade one to four) (as defined by trialists)

Periventricular leukomalacia (as defined by trialists)

Hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy (as defined by trialists)

Neonatal encephalopathy (as defined by trialists)

Proven neonatal sepsis (as defined by trialists)

Necrotising enterocolitis (as defined by trialists)

Abnormal neurological examination (however defined by the trialists, at a point earlier than 18 months of age)

For the mother

Side effects and serious adverse events associated with treatment (as reported by individual trialists e.g. renal dysfunction)

Women's satisfaction with the treatment (as defined by trialists)

Mode of birth (normal vaginal birth, operative vaginal birth, caesarean section), and indication for non‐elective mode of birth

For the infant/child

Cerebral palsy (any, and graded as severe: including children who are non‐ambulant and are likely to remain so; moderate: including those children who have substantial limitation of movement; mild: including those children walking with little limitation of movement)

Death or cerebral palsy

Blindness

Deafness

Developmental delay/intellectual impairment (classified as severe: a developmental quotient or intelligence quotient less than minus three SD below the mean (or as defined by trialists); moderate: a developmental quotient or intelligence quotient from minus three SD to minus two SD below the mean (or as defined by trialists); mild: a developmental quotient or intelligence quotient from minus two SD to minus one SD below the mean (or as defined by trialists))

Major neurosensory disability (defined as any of: moderate or severe cerebral palsy, legal blindness, neurosensory deafness requiring hearing aids, or moderate or severe developmental delay/intellectual impairment)

Death or major neurosensory disability

Growth assessments at childhood follow‐up (weight, head circumference, length/height)

Use of health services

Admission to intensive care unit for the mother

Length of postnatal hospitalisation for the women

Admission to neonatal intensive care for the infant and length of stay

Costs of care for the mother or infant, or both

Search methods for identification of studies
Electronic searches

We contacted the Trials Search Co‐ordinator to search the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 November 2014).

The Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register is maintained by the Trials Search Co‐ordinator and contains trials identified from:

monthly searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL);

weekly searches of MEDLINE (Ovid);

weekly searches of Embase (Ovid);

handsearches of 30 journals and the proceedings of major conferences;

weekly current awareness alerts for a further 44 journals plus monthly BioMed Central email alerts.

Details of the search strategies for CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and Embase, the list of handsearched journals and conference proceedings, and the list of journals reviewed via the current awareness service can be found in the 'Specialized Register' section within the editorial information about the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group.

Trials identified through the searching activities described above are each assigned to a review topic (or topics). The Trials Search Co‐ordinator searches the register for each review using the topic list rather than keywords.

We planned not to apply any language or date restrictions.

Searching other resources

We planned to search reference lists of retrieved studies.

Data collection and analysis

See Appendix 1 for methods of data collection and analysis to be used in future updates of this review.

Results
Description of studies

There were no studies in the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register.

Risk of bias in included studies

We found no randomised controlled trials for inclusion in the review.

Effects of interventions

We found no randomised controlled trials for inclusion in the review.

Discussion

We identified no randomised controlled trials assessing the benefits and harms of creatine for women in pregnancy for neuroprotection of the fetus.

Death and neurosensory disabilities, such as cerebral palsy, are serious outcomes after a preterm or term compromised pregnancy/birth, and thus the identification of primary preventative therapies is of crucial importance. Systematic reviews show that maternal administration of corticosteroids for impending preterm birth significantly reduces the risk of neonatal death, respiratory distress, cerebroventricular haemorrhage, and necrotising enterocolitis, and clearly reduces the requirement for neonatal respiratory support and intensive care (Roberts 2006). Antenatal magnesium sulphate administration has also been shown to reduce the risk of cerebral palsy and death when administered to women immediately prior to preterm birth (Doyle 2009). Maternal administration of the xanthine oxidase inhibitor allopurinol is under trial as a means of protecting the fetal brain from hypoxia‐induced oxidative stress (Kaandorp 2010; Kaandorp 2012); and antenatal melatonin is being assessed in pilot studies, for reducing oxidative stress and brain injury in pregnancies complicated by intrauterine growth restriction (ACTRN12612000858897) and pre‐eclampsia (Hobson 2013). While of potential/proven benefit, these treatments may be seen to be initiated 'late', i.e. when preterm birth is imminent or the fetus is already subjected to intrauterine hypoxia. These treatments currently require tertiary level medical care, which may restrict their use to settings with high degrees of obstetric surveillance. In the case of allopurinol, concerns have additionally been raised about its possible interference with normative and hypoxic regulation of the fetal circulation (Kane 2014). Notwithstanding the use of antenatal corticosteroids and magnesium sulphate to lower the risk of brain injury at or near birth (preterm or term), there are currently no accepted treatments that are recommended for use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy for the purpose of preventing birth‐related hypoxic‐ischaemic encephalopathy.

Clinical trials have shown that long‐term creatine supplementation is well tolerated, slowing the accumulation of glutamate in the brain of early‐onset Huntington's Disease (Bender 2006), and without serious side effects when given over years in patients with Parkinson's Disease (Bender 2005); creatine has also been shown to improve short‐term and long‐term outcomes for children recovering from traumatic brain injury (Sakellaris 2006; Sakellaris 2008). Compelling evidence from recent animal studies suggests that creatine could be a simple, cheap, and effective neuroprotective strategy for the fetus when administered maternally. A recent review, summarising the experimental studies of creatine supplementation during pregnancy to date, concluded that based on current evidence, this treatment should be evaluated as a prophylactic therapy, with the potential to improve fetal and neonatal morbidity and to reduce mortality in high‐risk human pregnancy (through protecting the brain, and possibly preventing damage to other organs) (Dickinson 2014). Creatine readily crosses the placenta in humans (Miller 1974) and animals (Braissant 2005; Ireland 2008), and accumulates in fetal tissues in animals (Ireland 2008). When administered maternally, creatine prevents hypoxia‐induced fetal brain injury (Ireland 2011). The proposed mechanism of action is the maintenance of tissue energy levels, which prevents the activation of apoptotic and lipid peroxidation pathways (Ireland 2011). Creatine/phosphocreatine functions primarily as a spatial and temporal energy buffer, connecting sub‐cellular sites of energy production with sites of energy utilisation at times of high energy demand (Wallimann 1992). In addition to yielding ATP, the dephosphorylation of creatine utilises free protons and ADP, thereby reducing the fall of intracellular pH and aiding in the stabilisation of the mitochondrial membrane potential (Wallimann 1992).

However, in the absence of randomised controlled trial data, uncertainty persists regarding the relative benefits and harms of creatine when given to women in pregnancy for fetal neuroprotection.

Authors' conclusions
Implications for practice.

As we did not identify any eligible trials for inclusion in this review, we are unable to comment on implications for practice regarding the use of creatine for women in pregnancy for neuroprotection of the fetus.

Implications for research.

The available animal studies of creatine in pregnancy for fetal neuroprotection provide some insight into the potential benefits of this intervention.

Research efforts are currently being directed towards understanding creatine biology in human pregnancy, including identifying whether pregnancies in which creatine concentrations are low are associated with poorer pregnancy outcomes or vice versa. While these studies will be informative for understanding creatine biology in human pregnancy, the absence of such associations will not preclude the possibility that creatine supplementation, above concentrations normally observed toward the end of pregnancy, could provide fetal neuroprotection. Before human trials are conducted, it will be important to determine whether taking creatine during pregnancy is safe for the mother and fetus; studies in larger animals, more comparable to the human, such as primates, will be helpful in establishing this.

If the safety and efficacy of creatine treatment are established, randomised controlled trials in humans are required to provide reliable evidence about the benefits and harms of creatine for this indication. Such randomised controlled trials in human pregnancy should first compare creatine supplementation with either no intervention (ideally a placebo), or with an alternative agent aimed at fetal neuroprotection. If appropriate, these trials should then be followed by studies comparing different creatine regimens (dosage and duration of exposure). Trials must be of a high quality and adequately powered to assess the comparative effects on fetal, infant and child mortality, child morbidity including cerebral palsy and other neurosensory disabilities, maternal outcomes including adverse effects, and the use of health services.

Acknowledgements

The authors acknowledge the editorial staff and the reviewers for their helpful comments on the protocol and this review.

As part of the pre‐publication editorial process, this review has been commented on by four peers (an editor and three referees who are external to the editorial team), a member of the Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's international panel of consumers and the Group's Statistical Adviser.

Appendices
Appendix 1. Methods of data collection and analysis to be used in future updates of this review
Selection of studies

At least two review authors will independently assess for inclusion all the potential studies we identify as a result of the search strategy. We will resolve any disagreement through discussion or, if required, we will consult a third review author.

Data extraction and management

We will design a form to extract data. For eligible studies, at least two review authors will extract the data using the agreed form. We will resolve discrepancies through discussion or, if required, we will consult a third review author. We will enter data into the Review Manager software (RevMan 2014) and check for accuracy.

When information regarding any of the above is unclear, we will attempt to contact authors of the original reports to provide further details.

Assessment of risk of bias in included studies

At least two review authors will independently assess risk of bias for each study using the criteria outlined in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions (Higgins 2011). We will resolve any disagreement by discussion or by involving a third assessor.

(1) Random sequence generation (checking for possible selection bias)

We will describe for each included study the method used to generate the allocation sequence in sufficient detail to allow an assessment of whether it should produce comparable groups.

We will assess the method as:

low risk of bias (any truly random process, e.g. random number table; computer random number generator);

high risk of bias (any non‐random process, e.g. odd or even date of birth; hospital or clinic record number);

unclear risk of bias.

(2) Allocation concealment (checking for possible selection bias)

We will describe for each included study the method used to conceal allocation to interventions prior to assignment and will assess whether intervention allocation could have been foreseen in advance of, or during recruitment, or changed after assignment.

We will assess the methods as:

low risk of bias (e.g. telephone or central randomisation; consecutively numbered, sealed, opaque envelopes);

high risk of bias (open random allocation; unsealed or non‐opaque envelopes; alternation; date of birth);

unclear risk of bias.

(3.1) Blinding of participants and personnel (checking for possible performance bias)

We will describe for each included study the methods used, if any, to blind study participants and personnel from knowledge of which intervention a participant received. We will consider that studies are at low risk of bias if they were blinded, or if we judge that the lack of blinding would be unlikely to affect results. We will assess blinding separately for different outcomes or classes of outcomes.

We will assess the methods as:

low, high, or unclear risk of bias for participants;

low, high, or unclear risk of bias for personnel.

(3.2) Blinding of outcome assessment (checking for possible detection bias)

We will describe for each included study the methods used, if any, to blind outcome assessors from knowledge of which intervention a participant received. We will assess blinding separately for different outcomes or classes of outcomes.

We will assess methods used to blind outcome assessment as:

low, high, or unclear risk of bias.

(4) Incomplete outcome data (checking for possible attrition bias due to the amount, nature, and handling of incomplete outcome data)

We will describe for each included study, and for each outcome or class of outcomes, the completeness of data including attrition and exclusions from the analysis. We will state whether attrition and exclusions were reported and the numbers included in the analysis at each stage (compared with the total randomised participants), reasons for attrition or exclusion where reported, and whether missing data were balanced across groups or were related to outcomes. Where sufficient information is reported, or can be supplied by the trial authors, we will re‐include missing data in the analyses which we undertake.

We will assess methods as:

low risk of bias (e.g. no missing outcome data; missing outcome data balanced across groups);

high risk of bias (e.g. numbers or reasons for missing data imbalanced across groups; 'as treated' analysis done with substantial departure of intervention received from that assigned at randomisation);

unclear risk of bias.

(5) Selective reporting (checking for reporting bias)

We will describe for each included study how we investigated the possibility of selective outcome reporting bias and what we found.

We will assess the methods as:

low risk of bias (where it is clear that all of the study's pre‐specified outcomes and all expected outcomes of interest to the review have been reported);

high risk of bias (where not all the study's pre‐specified outcomes have been reported; one or more reported primary outcomes were not pre‐specified; outcomes of interest are reported incompletely and so cannot be used; study fails to include results of a key outcome that would have been expected to have been reported);

unclear risk of bias.

(6) Other bias (checking for bias due to problems not covered by (1) to (5) above)

We will describe for each included study any important concerns we have about other possible sources of bias.

We will assess whether each study was free of other problems that could put it at risk of bias:

low risk of other bias;

high risk of other bias;

unclear whether there is risk of other bias.

(7) Overall risk of bias

We will make explicit judgements about whether studies are at high risk of bias, according to the criteria given in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions (Higgins 2011). With reference to (1) to (6) above, we will assess the likely magnitude and direction of the bias and whether we consider it is likely to impact on the findings. We will explore the impact of the level of bias through undertaking sensitivity analyses ‐ see Sensitivity analysis.

Measures of treatment effect
Dichotomous data

For dichotomous data, we will present results as summary risk ratio with 95% confidence intervals.

Continuous data

For continuous data, we will use the mean difference if outcomes are measured in the same way between trials. We will use the standardised mean difference to combine trials that measure the same outcome, but use different methods.

Unit of analysis issues
Cluster‐randomised trials

We consider cluster‐randomised trials as inappropriate for this research question.

Cross‐over trials

We consider cross‐over trials as inappropriate for this research question.

Multiple pregnancies

As infants from multiple pregnancies are not independent, we plan to use cluster trial methods in the analyses, where the data allow, and where multiples make up a substantial proportion of the trial population, to account for non‐independence of variables (Gates 2004).

Multi‐armed studies

If multi‐armed studies are included in the review, we plan to combine groups where appropriate in order to create a single pair‐wise comparison (e.g. creatine versus alternative neuroprotective treatments).

If an included trial has an intervention arm that is not relevant to the review question, we will comment on this in the table of 'Characteristics of included studies', and include in the review only the intervention and control groups that meet the eligibility criteria.

Dealing with missing data

For included studies, we will note levels of attrition. We will explore the impact of including studies with high levels of missing data in the overall assessment of treatment effect by using sensitivity analysis.

For all outcomes, we will carry out analyses, as far as possible, on an intention‐to‐treat basis, i.e. we will attempt to include all participants randomised to each group in the analyses, and we will analyse all participants in the group to which they were allocated, regardless of whether or not they received the allocated intervention. The denominator for each outcome in each trial will be the number randomised minus any participants whose outcomes are known to be missing.

Assessment of heterogeneity

We will assess statistical heterogeneity in each meta‐analysis using the T², I², and Chi² statistics. We will regard heterogeneity as substantial if an I² is greater than 30% and either a T² is greater than zero, or there is a low P value (less than 0.10) in the Chi² test for heterogeneity.

Assessment of reporting biases

If there are 10 or more studies in the meta‐analysis, we will investigate reporting biases (such as publication bias) using funnel plots. We will assess funnel plot asymmetry visually. If asymmetry is suggested by a visual assessment, we will perform exploratory analyses to investigate it.

Data synthesis

We will carry out statistical analysis using the Review Manager software (RevMan 2014). We will use fixed‐effect meta‐analysis for combining data where it is reasonable to assume that studies are estimating the same underlying treatment effect: i.e. where trials are examining the same intervention, and the trials' populations and methods are judged sufficiently similar. If there is clinical heterogeneity sufficient to expect that the underlying treatment effects differ between trials, or if substantial statistical heterogeneity is detected, we will use random‐effects meta‐analysis to produce an overall summary, if an average treatment effect across trials is considered clinically meaningful. We will treat the random‐effects summary as the average range of possible treatment effects and we will discuss the clinical implications of treatment effects differing between trials. If the average treatment effect is not clinically meaningful, we will not combine trials.

If we use random‐effects analyses, we will present the results as the average treatment effect with 95% confidence intervals, and the estimates of T² and I².

Subgroup analysis and investigation of heterogeneity

We will perform separate comparisons for those trials comparing creatine with no treatment or a placebo, and those comparing creatine with an alternative neuroprotective agent.

If we identify substantial heterogeneity, we will investigate it using subgroup analyses and sensitivity analyses. We will consider whether an overall summary is meaningful, and, if it is, use random‐effects analysis to produce it.

Maternal characteristics, and characteristics of the intervention, are likely to affect health outcomes. We will carry out subgroup analyses, if sufficient data are available, based on:

gestational age at which the woman commenced creatine treatment (e.g. < 26 weeks versus 26 to < 28 weeks versus 28 to < 30 weeks versus 30 to < 32 weeks versus 32 to < 34 versus 34 to < 37 weeks versus 37 weeks and over);

reasons the mother was considered for creatine treatment (e.g. preterm versus growth‐restricted fetus versus prolonged prelabour rupture of membrane versus increased risk of chorioamnionitis versus pre‐eclampsia/eclampsia versus increased risk of perinatal asphyxia versus other);

total daily dose of creatine administered (e.g. low (≤ 1 g per day) versus moderate (> 1 g to ≤ 5 g per day) versus high (> 5 g per day));

mode of administration (e.g. intramuscular versus intravenous versus oral);

number of babies in utero (e.g. singleton versus multiple).

We will use primary outcomes in subgroup analyses.

We will assess subgroup differences by interaction tests available within RevMan 2014. We will report the results of subgroup analyses quoting the Chi² statistic and P value, and the interaction test I² value.

Sensitivity analysis

We will carry out sensitivity analysis to explore the effects of trial quality assessed by allocation concealment and random sequence generation (considering selection bias), by omitting studies rated as 'high risk of bias' or 'unclear risk of bias' for these components. We will restrict this to the primary outcomes.

Differences between protocol and review

None.

Contributions of authors

Emily Bain drafted the first version of the protocol. Hayley Dickinson, David Walker, Dominic Wilkinson, Philippa Middleton, and Caroline Crowther made comments and contributed to the subsequent drafts of the protocol.

Hayley Dickinson drafted the first version of the review, with David Walker, Emily Bain, Dominic Wilkinson, Philippa Middleton, and Caroline Crowther commenting on the draft, and contributing to the final version.

Sources of support
Internal sources

ARCH: Australian Research Centre for Health of Women and Babies, Robinson Research Institute, The University of Adelaide, Australia.

External sources

National Health and Medical Research Council, Australia.

Declarations of interest

Hayley Dickinson: None known.

Emily Bain: None known.

Dominic Wilkinson: None known.

Philippa Middleton: None known.

Caroline A Crowther: None known.

David W Walker: None known.

New

References
Additional references
ACPR Group 2009
 Australian Cerebral Palsy Register (ACPR) Group. Report of the Australian Cerebral Palsy Register, Birth Years 1993‐2003. Cerebral Palsy Institute, 2009. [Google Scholar]
ACTRN12612000858897
ACTRN12612000858897. Melatonin to prevent brain injury in unborn growth restricted babies (MEL). https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=362854 (accessed 10 December 2013).
Adcock 2002
 Adcock KH, Nedelcu J, Loenneker T, Martin E, Wallimann T, Wagner BP. Neuroprotection of creatine supplementation in neonatal rats with transient cerebral hypoxia‐ischemia. Developmental Neuroscience 2002;24(5):382‐8. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Bain 2013
 Bain ES, Middleton PF, Crowther CA. Maternal adverse effects of different antenatal magnesium sulphate regimens for improving maternal and infant outcomes: a systematic review. BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth 2013;13:195. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Bax 2005
 Bax M, Goldstein M, Rosenbaum P, Leviton A, Paneth N, Dan B, et al. Proposed definition and classification of cerebral palsy. Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology 2005;47:571‐6. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Beal 2011
 Beal M. Neuroprotective effects of creatine. Amino Acids 2011;40(5):1305‐13. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Bender 2005
 Bender A, Auer DP, Merl T, Reilmann R, Saemann P, Yassouridis A, et al. Creatine supplementation lowers brain glutamate levels in Huntington's disease. Journal of Neurology 2005;252(1):36‐41. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Bender 2006
 Bender A, Koch W, Elstner M, Schombacher Y, Bender J, Moeschl M. Creatine supplementation in Parkinson disease: a placebo‐controlled randomized pilot trial. Neurology 2006;67(7):1262‐4. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Blair 2006
 Blair E, Watson L. Epidemiology of cerebral palsy. Seminars in Fetal and Neonatal Medicine 2006;11:117‐23. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Braissant 2005
 Braissant O, Henry H, Villard AM, Speer O, Wallimann T, Bachmann C. Creatine synthesis and transport during rat embryogenesis: spatiotemporal expression of AGAT, GAMT and CT1. BMC Developmental Biology 2005;5:9. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Calvert 2005
 Calvert, JW, Zhang JH. Pathophysiology of an hypoxic–ischemic insult during the perinatal period. Neurological Research 2005;27(3):246‐60. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Cannata 2010
 Cannata DJ,  Ireland Z,  Dickinson H,  Snow RJ,  Russell AP,  West JM,  et al. Maternal creatine supplementation from mid‐pregnancy protects the diaphragm of the newborn spiny mouse from intrapartum hypoxia‐induced damage. Pediatric Research 2010;68(5):393‐8. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Dickinson 2013
 Dickinson H, Ireland ZJ, Larosa DA, O'Connell BA, Ellery S, Snow R, et al. Maternal dietary creatine supplementation does not alter the capacity for creatine synthesis in the newborn spiny mouse. Reproductive Sciences 2013;20(9):1096‐102. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Dickinson 2014
 Dickinson H, Ellery S, Ireland Z, Larosa D, Snow R, Walker DW. Creatine supplementation during pregnancy: summary of experimental studies suggesting a treatment to improve fetal and neonatal morbidity and reduce mortality in high‐risk human pregnancy. BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth 2014;14:150. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Dilenge 2001
 Dilenge M, Majnemer A, Shevell M. Long‐term developmental outcome of asphyxiated term neonates. Journal of Child Neurology 2001;16:781‐92. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Doyle 2009
 Doyle LW, Crowther CA, Middleton P, Marret S, Rouse D. Magnesium sulphate for women at risk of preterm birth for neuroprotection of the fetus. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2009, Issue 1. [DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004661.pub3] [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
du Plessis 2002
 du Plessis AJ, Volpe JJ. Perinatal brain injury in the preterm and term newborn. Current Opinion in Neurology 2002;15:151‐7. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Ellery 2013
 Ellery SJ, Ireland Z, Kett MM, Snow R, Walker DW, Dickinson H. Creatine pretreatment prevents birth asphyxia‐induced injury of the newborn spiny mouse kidney. Pediatric Research 2013;73(2):201‐8. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Gates 2004
 Gates S, Brocklehurst P. How should trials recruiting women with multiple pregnancies be analysed?. British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 2004;111:213‐9. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Gualano 2011
 Gualano B, Salles Painelli V, Roschel H, Lugaresi R, Dorea E, Artioli GG. Creatine supplementation does not impair kidney function in type 2 diabetic patients: a randomized, double‐blind, placebo‐controlled, clinical trial. European Journal of Applied Physiology 2011;111(5):749‐56. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Higgins 2011
Higgins JPT, Green S (editors). Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions Version 5.1.0 [updated March 2011]. The Cochrane Collaboration, 2011. Available from www.cochrane‐handbook.org.
Hobson 2013
 Hobson SR, Lim R, Gardiner EE, Alers NO, Wallace EM. Phase I pilot clinical trial of antenatal maternally administered melatonin to decrease the level of oxidative stress in human pregnancies affected by pre‐eclampsia (PAMPR): study protocol. BMJ Open 2013;3:e003788. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Ireland 2008
 Ireland Z, Dickinson H, Snow R, Walker DW. Maternal creatine: does it reach the fetus and improve survival after an acute hypoxic episode in the spiny mouse (Acomys cahirinus)?. American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology 2008;198(4):431e1‐6. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Ireland 2011
 Ireland Z, Castillo‐Melendez M, Dickinson H, Snow R, Walker DW. A maternal diet supplemented with creatine from mid‐pregnancy protects the newborn spiny mouse brain from birth hypoxia. Neuroscience 2011;194:372‐9. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Jacobsson 2002
 Jacobsson B, Hagberg G, Hagberg B, Ladfors L, Niklasson A, Hagberg H. Cerebral palsy in preterm infants: a population‐based case‐control study of antenatal and intrapartal risk factors. Acta Paediatrica 2002;91:946‐51. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Jensen 2003
 Jensen A, Garnier Y, Middelanis J, Berger R. Perinatal brain damage—from pathophysiology to prevention. European Journal of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Biology 2003;110:S70‐9. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Johnston 2000
 Johnston MV, Trescher WH, Ishida A, Nakajima W. Novel treatments after experimental brain injury. Seminars in Neonatology 2000;5:75‐86. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Kaandorp 2010
 Kaandorp JJ, Benders MJ, Rademaker CM, Torrance HL, Oudijk MA, Haan TR, et al. Antenatal allopurinol for reduction of birth asphyxia induced brain damage (ALLO‐Trial); a randomized double blind placebo controlled multicenter study. BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth 2010;10:8. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Kaandorp 2012
 Kaandorp JJ, Bel F, Veen S, Derks JB, Groenendaal F, Rijken M, et al. Long‐term neuroprotective effects of allopurinol after moderate perinatal asphyxia: follow‐up of two randomised controlled trials. Archives of Disease in Childhood. Fetal and Neonatal Edition 2012;97(3):F162‐166. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Kane 2014
 Kane AD, Hansell JA, Herrera EA, Allison BJ, Niu Y, Brain KL, et al. Xanthine oxidase and the fetal cardiovascular defence to hypoxia in late gestation ovine pregnancy. Journal of Physiology 2014;592(Pt 3):4765‐89. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Larroque 2003
 Larroque B,  Marret S,  Ancel PY,  Arnaud C,  Marpeau L,  Supernant K,  et al. White matter damage and intraventricular hemorrhage in very preterm infants: the EPIPAGE study. Journal of Pediatrics 2003;143(4):477‐83. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Lawler 2002
 Lawler JM, Barnes WS, Wu G, Song W, Demaree S. Direct antioxidant properties of creatine. Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications 2002;290(1):47‐52. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Marret 2007
 Marret S, Doyle LW, Crowther CA, Middleton P. Antenatal magnesium sulphate neuroprotection in the preterm infant. Seminars in Fetal & Neonatal Medicine 2007;12(4):311‐7. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
McIntyre 2013
 McIntyre S, Taitz D, Keogh J, Goldsmith S, Badawi N, Blair E. A systematic review of risk factors for cerebral palsy in children born at term in developed countries. Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology 2013;55:499‐508. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Miller 1974
 Miller R, Davis BM, Brent RL, Koszalka TR. Transport of creatine in the human placenta. Pharmacologist 1974;16(2):305. [Google Scholar]
Nguyen 2013
 Nguyen TMN, Crowther CA, Wilkinson D, Bain E. Magnesium sulphate for women at term for neuroprotection of the fetus. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2013, Issue 2. [DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009395.pub2] [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Novak 2012
 Novak I, Hines M, Goldsmith S, Barclay R. Clinical prognostic messages from a systematic review of cerebral palsy. Paediatrics 2012;130(5):e1285‐312. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Pastula 2012
 Pastula DM, Moore DH, Bedlack RS. Creatine for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2012, Issue 12. [DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005225.pub3] [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Prass 2006
 Prass K,  Royl G,  Lindauer U,  Freyer D,  Megow D,  Dirnagl U, et al. Improved reperfusion and neuroprotection by creatine in a mouse model of stroke. Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow and Metabolism 2006;27(3):452‐9. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Rees 2011
 Rees S, Harding R, Walker D. The biological basis of injury and neuroprotection in the fetal and neonatal brain. International Journal of Developmental Neuroscience 2011;29(6):551–63. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
RevMan 2014 [Computer program]
The Nordic Cochrane Centre, The Cochrane Collaboration. Review Manager (RevMan). Version 5.3. Copenhagen: The Nordic Cochrane Centre, The Cochrane Collaboration, 2014.
Roberts 2006
 Roberts D, Dalziel S. Antenatal corticosteroids for accelerating fetal lung maturation for women at risk of preterm birth. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2006, Issue 3. [DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004454.pub2] [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Sakellaris 2006
 Sakellaris G, Kotsiou M, Tamiolaki M, Kalostos G, Tsapaki E, Spanaki M, et al. Prevention of complications related to traumatic brain injury in children and adolescents with creatine administration: an open label randomized pilot study. Journal of Trauma 2006;61(2):322‐9. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Sakellaris 2008
 Sakellaris G, Nasis G, Kotsiou M, Tamiolaki M, Charissis G, Evangeliou A. Prevention of traumatic headache, dizziness and fatigue with creatine administration. A pilot study. Acta Paediatrica 2008;97(1):31‐4. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Sestili 2006
 Sestili P,  Martinelli C,  Bravi G,  Piccoli G,  Curci R,  Battistelli M,  et al. Creatine supplementation affords cytoprotection in oxidatively injured cultured mammalian cells via direct antioxidant activity. Free Radical Biology and Medicine 2006;40(5):837‐49. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Sullivan 2000
 Sullivan PG, Geiger JD, Mattson MP, Scheff SW. Dietary supplement creatine protects against traumatic brain injury. Annals of Neurology 2000;48(5):723‐9. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Volpe 2001
 Volpe JJ. Perinatal brain injury: from pathogenesis to neuroprotection. Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities 2001;7:56‐64. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Wallimann 1992
 Wallimann TWM, Brdiczka D, Nicolay K, Eppenberger H. Intracellular compartmentation, structure and function of creatine kinase isoenzymes in tissues with high and fluctuating energy demands: the “phosphocreatine circuit” for cellular energy homeostasis. Biochemical Journal 1992;281(Pt 1):21‐40. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Wallimann 2011
 Wallimann T, Tokarska‐Schlattner M, Schlattner U. The creatine kinase system and pleiotropic effects of creatine. Amino Acids 2011;40(5):1271‐96. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Wang 2012
 Wang J, Xiao Y, Chen S, Zhong C, Luo M, Luo H. Creatine for Parkinson's disease. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2012, Issue 2. [DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009646] [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Wilkinson 2013
 Wilkinson D, Bain E, Wallace E. Melatonin for women in pregnancy for neuroprotection of the fetus. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2013, Issue 5. [DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010527] [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Wu 2003
 Wu Y, Escobar G, Grether J, Croen L, Greene J, Newman T. Chorioamnionitis and cerebral palsy in term and near‐term infants. JAMA 2003;290(20):2677‐84. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Wyss 2002
 Wyss M, Schulze A. Health implications of creatine: can oral creatine supplementation protect against neurological and atherosclerotic disease?. Neuroscience 2002;112(2):243‐60. [DOI] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Zhu 2004
 Zhu S,  Li M,  Figueroa BE,  Liu A,  Stavrovskaya IG,  Pasinelli P,  et al. Prophylactic creatine administration mediates neuroprotection in cerebral ischemia in mice. Journal of Neuroscience 2004;24(26):5909‐12. [DOI] [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]

Articles from The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews are provided here courtesy of Wiley

ACTIONS
View on publisher site
PDF (218.9 KB)
Cite
Collections
Permalink
RESOURCES
Similar articles
Cited by other articles
Links to NCBI Databases
ON THIS PAGE
Abstract
Plain language summary
Background
Objectives
Methods
Results
Discussion
Authors' conclusions
Acknowledgements
Appendices
Differences between protocol and review
Contributions of authors
Sources of support
Declarations of interest
References
FOLLOW NCBI
NCBI on X (formerly known as Twitter)
NCBI on Facebook
NCBI on LinkedIn
NCBI on GitHub
NCBI RSS feed

Connect with NLM

NLM on X (formerly known as Twitter)
NLM on Facebook
NLM on YouTube

National Library of Medicine
8600 Rockville Pike
Bethesda, MD 20894

Web Policies
FOIA
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Help
Accessibility
Careers
NLM
NIH
HHS
USA.gov

LINKS
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#main-content
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/myncbi/
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/myncbi/collections/bibliography/
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/account/settings/
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/journals/
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/userguide/
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD010846.pub2
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/pdf/CD010846.pdf
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/disclaimer/
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/about/copyright/
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/search/?term=%22Cochrane%20Database%20Syst%20Rev%22[jour]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=%22Cochrane%20Database%20Syst%20Rev%22[jour]
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nlmcatalog?term=%22Cochrane%20Database%20Syst%20Rev%22[Title%20Abbreviation]
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/?term=%22Cochrane%20Database%20Syst%20Rev%22[jour]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=%22Dickinson%20H%22[Author]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=%22Bain%20E%22[Author]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=%22Wilkinson%20D%22[Author]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=%22Middleton%20P%22[Author]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=%22Crowther%20CA%22[Author]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/?term=%22Walker%20DW%22[Author]
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25523279/
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD010846
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0040
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0026
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0005
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0037
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0001
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0017
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0047
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0009
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0025
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0034
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0031
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0052
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0015
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0027
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0016
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0033
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0036
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0004
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0051
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0028
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0029
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0042
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0003
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0048
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0046
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0054
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0038
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0050
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0049
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0011
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0053
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0006
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0032
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0045
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0039
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0023
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0024
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0012
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0018
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0013
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0020
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0002
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0022
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0030
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0008
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0007
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0043
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0044
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0014
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0035
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0010
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0041
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0021
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-bbs2-0019
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Report%20of%20the%20Australian%20Cerebral%20Palsy%20Register,%20Birth%20Years%201993%E2%80%902003&publication_year=2009&
https://doi.org/10.1159/000069043
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12640176/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Developmental%20Neuroscience&title=Neuroprotection%20of%20creatine%20supplementation%20in%20neonatal%20rats%20with%20transient%20cerebral%20hypoxia%E2%80%90ischemia&author=KH%20Adcock&author=J%20Nedelcu&author=T%20Loenneker&author=E%20Martin&author=T%20Wallimann&volume=24&issue=5&publication_year=2002&pages=382-8&pmid=12640176&doi=10.1159/000069043&
https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2393-13-195
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4015216/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24139447/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Pregnancy%20and%20Childbirth&title=Maternal%20adverse%20effects%20of%20different%20antenatal%20magnesium%20sulphate%20regimens%20for%20improving%20maternal%20and%20infant%20outcomes:%20a%20systematic%20review&author=ES%20Bain&author=PF%20Middleton&author=CA%20Crowther&volume=13&publication_year=2013&pages=195&pmid=24139447&doi=10.1186/1471-2393-13-195&
https://doi.org/10.1017/s001216220500112x
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16108461/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Developmental%20Medicine%20and%20Child%20Neurology&title=Proposed%20definition%20and%20classification%20of%20cerebral%20palsy&author=M%20Bax&author=M%20Goldstein&author=P%20Rosenbaum&author=A%20Leviton&author=N%20Paneth&volume=47&publication_year=2005&pages=571-6&pmid=16108461&doi=10.1017/s001216220500112x&
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00726-011-0851-0
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21448659/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Amino%20Acids&title=Neuroprotective%20effects%20of%20creatine&author=M%20Beal&volume=40&issue=5&publication_year=2011&pages=1305-13&pmid=21448659&doi=10.1007/s00726-011-0851-0&
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00415-005-0595-4
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15672208/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Neurology&title=Creatine%20supplementation%20lowers%20brain%20glutamate%20levels%20in%20Huntington%27s%20disease&author=A%20Bender&author=DP%20Auer&author=T%20Merl&author=R%20Reilmann&author=P%20Saemann&volume=252&issue=1&publication_year=2005&pages=36-41&pmid=15672208&doi=10.1007/s00415-005-0595-4&
https://doi.org/10.1212/01.wnl.0000238518.34389.12
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17030762/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Neurology&title=Creatine%20supplementation%20in%20Parkinson%20disease:%20a%20placebo%E2%80%90controlled%20randomized%20pilot%20trial&author=A%20Bender&author=W%20Koch&author=M%20Elstner&author=Y%20Schombacher&author=J%20Bender&volume=67&issue=7&publication_year=2006&pages=1262-4&pmid=17030762&doi=10.1212/01.wnl.0000238518.34389.12&
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.siny.2005.10.010
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16338186/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Seminars%20in%20Fetal%20and%20Neonatal%20Medicine&title=Epidemiology%20of%20cerebral%20palsy&author=E%20Blair&author=L%20Watson&volume=11&publication_year=2006&pages=117-23&pmid=16338186&doi=10.1016/j.siny.2005.10.010&
https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-213X-5-9
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC1175845/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15918910/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Developmental%20Biology&title=Creatine%20synthesis%20and%20transport%20during%20rat%20embryogenesis:%20spatiotemporal%20expression%20of%20AGAT,%20GAMT%20and%20CT1&author=O%20Braissant&author=H%20Henry&author=AM%20Villard&author=O%20Speer&author=T%20Wallimann&volume=5&publication_year=2005&pages=9&pmid=15918910&doi=10.1186/1471-213X-5-9&
https://doi.org/10.1179/016164105X25216
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15845208/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Neurological%20Research&title=Pathophysiology%20of%20an%20hypoxic%E2%80%93ischemic%20insult%20during%20the%20perinatal%20period&author=%20Calvert&author=%20JW&author=JH%20Zhang&volume=27&issue=3&publication_year=2005&pages=246-60&pmid=15845208&doi=10.1179/016164105X25216&
https://doi.org/10.1203/PDR.0b013e3181f1c048
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20639795/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Pediatric%20Research&title=Maternal%20creatine%20supplementation%20from%20mid%E2%80%90pregnancy%20protects%20the%20diaphragm%20of%20the%20newborn%20spiny%20mouse%20from%20intrapartum%20hypoxia%E2%80%90induced%20damage&author=DJ%20Cannata&author=Z%20%C2%A0Ireland&author=H%20%C2%A0Dickinson&author=RJ%20%C2%A0Snow&author=AP%20%C2%A0Russell&volume=68&issue=5&publication_year=2010&pages=393-8&pmid=20639795&doi=10.1203/PDR.0b013e3181f1c048&
https://doi.org/10.1177/1933719113477478
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3745711/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23427185/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Reproductive%20Sciences&title=Maternal%20dietary%20creatine%20supplementation%20does%20not%20alter%20the%20capacity%20for%20creatine%20synthesis%20in%20the%20newborn%20spiny%20mouse&author=H%20Dickinson&author=ZJ%20Ireland&author=DA%20Larosa&author=BA%20O%27Connell&author=S%20Ellery&volume=20&issue=9&publication_year=2013&pages=1096-102&pmid=23427185&doi=10.1177/1933719113477478&
https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2393-14-150
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4007139/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24766646/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Pregnancy%20and%20Childbirth&title=Creatine%20supplementation%20during%20pregnancy:%20summary%20of%20experimental%20studies%20suggesting%20a%20treatment%20to%20improve%20fetal%20and%20neonatal%20morbidity%20and%20reduce%20mortality%20in%20high%E2%80%90risk%20human%20pregnancy&author=H%20Dickinson&author=S%20Ellery&author=Z%20Ireland&author=D%20Larosa&author=R%20Snow&volume=14&publication_year=2014&pages=150&pmid=24766646&doi=10.1186/1471-2393-14-150&
https://doi.org/10.1177/08830738010160110201
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11732762/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Child%20Neurology&title=Long%E2%80%90term%20developmental%20outcome%20of%20asphyxiated%20term%20neonates&author=M%20Dilenge&author=A%20Majnemer&author=M%20Shevell&volume=16&publication_year=2001&pages=781-92&pmid=11732762&doi=10.1177/08830738010160110201&
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD004661.pub3
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/19160238/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cochrane%20Database%20of%20Systematic%20Reviews&title=Magnesium%20sulphate%20for%20women%20at%20risk%20of%20preterm%20birth%20for%20neuroprotection%20of%20the%20fetus&author=LW%20Doyle&author=CA%20Crowther&author=P%20Middleton&author=S%20Marret&author=D%20Rouse&issue=1&publication_year=2009&pmid=19160238&doi=10.1002/14651858.CD004661.pub3&
https://doi.org/10.1097/00019052-200204000-00005
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11923628/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Current%20Opinion%20in%20Neurology&title=Perinatal%20brain%20injury%20in%20the%20preterm%20and%20term%20newborn&author=AJ%20du%20Plessis&author=JJ%20Volpe&volume=15&publication_year=2002&pages=151-7&pmid=11923628&doi=10.1097/00019052-200204000-00005&
https://doi.org/10.1038/pr.2012.174
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23174701/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Pediatric%20Research&title=Creatine%20pretreatment%20prevents%20birth%20asphyxia%E2%80%90induced%20injury%20of%20the%20newborn%20spiny%20mouse%20kidney&author=SJ%20Ellery&author=Z%20Ireland&author=MM%20Kett&author=R%20Snow&author=DW%20Walker&volume=73&issue=2&publication_year=2013&pages=201-8&pmid=23174701&doi=10.1038/pr.2012.174&
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1471-0528.2004.00059.x
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14961881/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=British%20Journal%20of%20Obstetrics%20and%20Gynaecology&title=How%20should%20trials%20recruiting%20women%20with%20multiple%20pregnancies%20be%20analysed?&author=S%20Gates&author=P%20Brocklehurst&volume=111&publication_year=2004&pages=213-9&pmid=14961881&doi=10.1111/j.1471-0528.2004.00059.x&
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00421-010-1676-3
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20976468/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=European%20Journal%20of%20Applied%20Physiology&title=Creatine%20supplementation%20does%20not%20impair%20kidney%20function%20in%20type%202%20diabetic%20patients:%20a%20randomized,%20double%E2%80%90blind,%20placebo%E2%80%90controlled,%20clinical%20trial&author=B%20Gualano&author=V%20Salles%20Painelli&author=H%20Roschel&author=R%20Lugaresi&author=E%20Dorea&volume=111&issue=5&publication_year=2011&pages=749-56&pmid=20976468&doi=10.1007/s00421-010-1676-3&
https://doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003788
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3780337/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24056493/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMJ%20Open&title=Phase%20I%20pilot%20clinical%20trial%20of%20antenatal%20maternally%20administered%20melatonin%20to%20decrease%20the%20level%20of%20oxidative%20stress%20in%20human%20pregnancies%20affected%20by%20pre%E2%80%90eclampsia%20(PAMPR):%20study%20protocol&author=SR%20Hobson&author=R%20Lim&author=EE%20Gardiner&author=NO%20Alers&author=EM%20Wallace&volume=3&publication_year=2013&pages=e003788&pmid=24056493&doi=10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003788&
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ajog.2007.10.790
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18295173/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=American%20Journal%20of%20Obstetrics%20and%20Gynecology&title=Maternal%20creatine:%20does%20it%20reach%20the%20fetus%20and%20improve%20survival%20after%20an%20acute%20hypoxic%20episode%20in%20the%20spiny%20mouse%20(Acomys%20cahirinus)?&author=Z%20Ireland&author=H%20Dickinson&author=R%20Snow&author=DW%20Walker&volume=198&issue=4&publication_year=2008&pages=431e1-6&pmid=18295173&doi=10.1016/j.ajog.2007.10.790&
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2011.05.012
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21640166/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Neuroscience&title=A%20maternal%20diet%20supplemented%20with%20creatine%20from%20mid%E2%80%90pregnancy%20protects%20the%20newborn%20spiny%20mouse%20brain%20from%20birth%20hypoxia&author=Z%20Ireland&author=M%20Castillo%E2%80%90Melendez&author=H%20Dickinson&author=R%20Snow&author=DW%20Walker&volume=194&publication_year=2011&pages=372-9&pmid=21640166&doi=10.1016/j.neuroscience.2011.05.012&
https://doi.org/10.1080/080352502760148685
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12222720/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Acta%20Paediatrica&title=Cerebral%20palsy%20in%20preterm%20infants:%20a%20population%E2%80%90based%20case%E2%80%90control%20study%20of%20antenatal%20and%20intrapartal%20risk%20factors&author=B%20Jacobsson&author=G%20Hagberg&author=B%20Hagberg&author=L%20Ladfors&author=A%20Niklasson&volume=91&publication_year=2002&pages=946-51&pmid=12222720&doi=10.1080/080352502760148685&
https://doi.org/10.1016/s0301-2115(03)00175-1
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12965093/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=European%20Journal%20of%20Obstetrics,%20Gynecology,%20and%20Reproductive%20Biology&title=Perinatal%20brain%20damage%E2%80%94from%20pathophysiology%20to%20prevention&author=A%20Jensen&author=Y%20Garnier&author=J%20Middelanis&author=R%20Berger&volume=110&publication_year=2003&pages=S70-9&pmid=12965093&doi=10.1016/s0301-2115(03)00175-1&
https://doi.org/10.1053/siny.1999.0116
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/10802752/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Seminars%20in%20Neonatology&title=Novel%20treatments%20after%20experimental%20brain%20injury&author=MV%20Johnston&author=WH%20Trescher&author=A%20Ishida&author=W%20Nakajima&volume=5&publication_year=2000&pages=75-86&pmid=10802752&doi=10.1053/siny.1999.0116&
https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2393-10-8
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2834613/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20167117/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=BMC%20Pregnancy%20and%20Childbirth&title=Antenatal%20allopurinol%20for%20reduction%20of%20birth%20asphyxia%20induced%20brain%20damage%20(ALLO%E2%80%90Trial);%20a%20randomized%20double%20blind%20placebo%20controlled%20multicenter%20study&author=JJ%20Kaandorp&author=MJ%20Benders&author=CM%20Rademaker&author=HL%20Torrance&author=MA%20Oudijk&volume=10&publication_year=2010&pages=8&pmid=20167117&doi=10.1186/1471-2393-10-8&
https://doi.org/10.1136/archdischild-2011-300356
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22102633/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Archives%20of%20Disease%20in%20Childhood.%20Fetal%20and%20Neonatal%20Edition&title=Long%E2%80%90term%20neuroprotective%20effects%20of%20allopurinol%20after%20moderate%20perinatal%20asphyxia:%20follow%E2%80%90up%20of%20two%20randomised%20controlled%20trials&author=JJ%20Kaandorp&author=F%20Bel&author=S%20Veen&author=JB%20Derks&author=F%20Groenendaal&volume=97&issue=3&publication_year=2012&pages=F162-166&pmid=22102633&doi=10.1136/archdischild-2011-300356&
https://doi.org/10.1113/jphysiol.2013.264275
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3930434/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24247986/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Physiology&title=Xanthine%20oxidase%20and%20the%20fetal%20cardiovascular%20defence%20to%20hypoxia%20in%20late%20gestation%20ovine%20pregnancy&author=AD%20Kane&author=JA%20Hansell&author=EA%20Herrera&author=BJ%20Allison&author=Y%20Niu&volume=592&issue=Pt%203&publication_year=2014&pages=4765-89&pmid=24247986&doi=10.1113/jphysiol.2013.264275&
https://doi.org/10.1067/S0022-3476(03)00417-7
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14571224/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Pediatrics&title=White%20matter%20damage%20and%20intraventricular%20hemorrhage%20in%20very%20preterm%20infants:%20the%20EPIPAGE%20study&author=B%20Larroque&author=S%20%C2%A0Marret&author=PY%20%C2%A0Ancel&author=C%20%C2%A0Arnaud&author=L%20%C2%A0Marpeau&volume=143&issue=4&publication_year=2003&pages=477-83&pmid=14571224&doi=10.1067/S0022-3476(03)00417-7&
https://doi.org/10.1006/bbrc.2001.6164
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11779131/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Biochemical%20and%20Biophysical%20Research%20Communications&title=Direct%20antioxidant%20properties%20of%20creatine&author=JM%20Lawler&author=WS%20Barnes&author=G%20Wu&author=W%20Song&author=S%20Demaree&volume=290&issue=1&publication_year=2002&pages=47-52&pmid=11779131&doi=10.1006/bbrc.2001.6164&
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.siny.2007.04.001
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17513184/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Seminars%20in%20Fetal%20&%20Neonatal%20Medicine&title=Antenatal%20magnesium%20sulphate%20neuroprotection%20in%20the%20preterm%20infant&author=S%20Marret&author=LW%20Doyle&author=CA%20Crowther&author=P%20Middleton&volume=12&issue=4&publication_year=2007&pages=311-7&pmid=17513184&doi=10.1016/j.siny.2007.04.001&
https://doi.org/10.1111/dmcn.12017
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23181910/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Developmental%20Medicine%20and%20Child%20Neurology&title=A%20systematic%20review%20of%20risk%20factors%20for%20cerebral%20palsy%20in%20children%20born%20at%20term%20in%20developed%20countries&author=S%20McIntyre&author=D%20Taitz&author=J%20Keogh&author=S%20Goldsmith&author=N%20Badawi&volume=55&publication_year=2013&pages=499-508&pmid=23181910&doi=10.1111/dmcn.12017&
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Pharmacologist&title=Transport%20of%20creatine%20in%20the%20human%20placenta&author=R%20Miller&author=BM%20Davis&author=RL%20Brent&author=TR%20Koszalka&volume=16&issue=2&publication_year=1974&pages=305&
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD009395.pub2
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11683453/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23450601/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cochrane%20Database%20of%20Systematic%20Reviews&title=Magnesium%20sulphate%20for%20women%20at%20term%20for%20neuroprotection%20of%20the%20fetus&author=TMN%20Nguyen&author=CA%20Crowther&author=D%20Wilkinson&author=E%20Bain&issue=2&publication_year=2013&pmid=23450601&doi=10.1002/14651858.CD009395.pub2&
https://doi.org/10.1542/peds.2012-0924
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23045562/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Paediatrics&title=Clinical%20prognostic%20messages%20from%20a%20systematic%20review%20of%20cerebral%20palsy&author=I%20Novak&author=M%20Hines&author=S%20Goldsmith&author=R%20Barclay&volume=130&issue=5&publication_year=2012&pages=e1285-312&pmid=23045562&doi=10.1542/peds.2012-0924&
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD005225.pub3
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC11403570/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23235621/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cochrane%20Database%20of%20Systematic%20Reviews&title=Creatine%20for%20amyotrophic%20lateral%20sclerosis/motor%20neuron%20disease&author=DM%20Pastula&author=DH%20Moore&author=RS%20Bedlack&issue=12&publication_year=2012&pmid=23235621&doi=10.1002/14651858.CD005225.pub3&
https://doi.org/10.1038/sj.jcbfm.9600351
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16773141/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Cerebral%20Blood%20Flow%20and%20Metabolism&title=Improved%20reperfusion%20and%20neuroprotection%20by%20creatine%20in%20a%20mouse%20model%20of%20stroke&author=K%20Prass&author=G%20%C2%A0Royl&author=U%20%C2%A0Lindauer&author=D%20%C2%A0Freyer&author=D%20%C2%A0Megow&volume=27&issue=3&publication_year=2006&pages=452-9&pmid=16773141&doi=10.1038/sj.jcbfm.9600351&
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2011.04.004
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3168707/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21527338/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=International%20Journal%20of%20Developmental%20Neuroscience&title=The%20biological%20basis%20of%20injury%20and%20neuroprotection%20in%20the%20fetal%20and%20neonatal%20brain&author=S%20Rees&author=R%20Harding&author=D%20Walker&volume=29&issue=6&publication_year=2011&pages=551%E2%80%9363&pmid=21527338&doi=10.1016/j.ijdevneu.2011.04.004&
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD004454.pub2
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16856047/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cochrane%20Database%20of%20Systematic%20Reviews&title=Antenatal%20corticosteroids%20for%20accelerating%20fetal%20lung%20maturation%20for%20women%20at%20risk%20of%20preterm%20birth&author=D%20Roberts&author=S%20Dalziel&issue=3&publication_year=2006&pmid=16856047&doi=10.1002/14651858.CD004454.pub2&
https://doi.org/10.1097/01.ta.0000230269.46108.d5
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16917445/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Trauma&title=Prevention%20of%20complications%20related%20to%20traumatic%20brain%20injury%20in%20children%20and%20adolescents%20with%20creatine%20administration:%20an%20open%20label%20randomized%20pilot%20study&author=G%20Sakellaris&author=M%20Kotsiou&author=M%20Tamiolaki&author=G%20Kalostos&author=E%20Tsapaki&volume=61&issue=2&publication_year=2006&pages=322-9&pmid=16917445&doi=10.1097/01.ta.0000230269.46108.d5&
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1651-2227.2007.00529.x
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2583396/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/18053002/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Acta%20Paediatrica&title=Prevention%20of%20traumatic%20headache,%20dizziness%20and%20fatigue%20with%20creatine%20administration.%20A%20pilot%20study&author=G%20Sakellaris&author=G%20Nasis&author=M%20Kotsiou&author=M%20Tamiolaki&author=G%20Charissis&volume=97&issue=1&publication_year=2008&pages=31-4&pmid=18053002&doi=10.1111/j.1651-2227.2007.00529.x&
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2005.10.035
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/16520236/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Free%20Radical%20Biology%20and%20Medicine&title=Creatine%20supplementation%20affords%20cytoprotection%20in%20oxidatively%20injured%20cultured%20mammalian%20cells%20via%20direct%20antioxidant%20activity&author=P%20Sestili&author=C%20%C2%A0Martinelli&author=G%20%C2%A0Bravi&author=G%20%C2%A0Piccoli&author=R%20%C2%A0Curci&volume=40&issue=5&publication_year=2006&pages=837-49&pmid=16520236&doi=10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2005.10.035&
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11079535/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Annals%20of%20Neurology&title=Dietary%20supplement%20creatine%20protects%20against%20traumatic%20brain%20injury&author=PG%20Sullivan&author=JD%20Geiger&author=MP%20Mattson&author=SW%20Scheff&volume=48&issue=5&publication_year=2000&pages=723-9&pmid=11079535&
https://doi.org/10.1002/1098-2779(200102)7:1%3C56::AID-MRDD1008%3E3.0.CO;2-A
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/11241883/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Mental%20Retardation%20and%20Developmental%20Disabilities&title=Perinatal%20brain%20injury:%20from%20pathogenesis%20to%20neuroprotection&author=JJ%20Volpe&volume=7&publication_year=2001&pages=56-64&pmid=11241883&doi=10.1002/1098-2779(200102)7:1%3C56::AID-MRDD1008%3E3.0.CO;2-A&
https://doi.org/10.1042/bj2810021
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC1130636/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/1731757/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Biochemical%20Journal&title=Intracellular%20compartmentation,%20structure%20and%20function%20of%20creatine%20kinase%20isoenzymes%20in%20tissues%20with%20high%20and%20fluctuating%20energy%20demands:%20the%20%E2%80%9Cphosphocreatine%20circuit%E2%80%9D%20for%20cellular%20energy%20homeostasis&author=TWM%20Wallimann&author=D%20Brdiczka&author=K%20Nicolay&author=H%20Eppenberger&volume=281&issue=Pt%201&publication_year=1992&pages=21-40&pmid=1731757&doi=10.1042/bj2810021&
https://doi.org/10.1007/s00726-011-0877-3
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3080659/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21448658/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Amino%20Acids&title=The%20creatine%20kinase%20system%20and%20pleiotropic%20effects%20of%20creatine&author=T%20Wallimann&author=M%20Tokarska%E2%80%90Schlattner&author=U%20Schlattner&volume=40&issue=5&publication_year=2011&pages=1271-96&pmid=21448658&doi=10.1007/s00726-011-0877-3&
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD009646
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10196714/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24934384/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cochrane%20Database%20of%20Systematic%20Reviews&title=Creatine%20for%20Parkinson%27s%20disease&author=J%20Wang&author=Y%20Xiao&author=S%20Chen&author=C%20Zhong&author=M%20Luo&issue=2&publication_year=2012&pmid=24934384&doi=10.1002/14651858.CD009646&
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD010527
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC7081745/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27022888/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Cochrane%20Database%20of%20Systematic%20Reviews&title=Melatonin%20for%20women%20in%20pregnancy%20for%20neuroprotection%20of%20the%20fetus&author=D%20Wilkinson&author=E%20Bain&author=E%20Wallace&issue=5&publication_year=2013&pmid=27022888&doi=10.1002/14651858.CD010527&
https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.290.20.2677
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14645309/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=JAMA&title=Chorioamnionitis%20and%20cerebral%20palsy%20in%20term%20and%20near%E2%80%90term%20infants&author=Y%20Wu&author=G%20Escobar&author=J%20Grether&author=L%20Croen&author=J%20Greene&volume=290&issue=20&publication_year=2003&pages=2677-84&pmid=14645309&doi=10.1001/jama.290.20.2677&
https://doi.org/10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00088-x
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/12044443/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Neuroscience&title=Health%20implications%20of%20creatine:%20can%20oral%20creatine%20supplementation%20protect%20against%20neurological%20and%20atherosclerotic%20disease?&author=M%20Wyss&author=A%20Schulze&volume=112&issue=2&publication_year=2002&pages=243-60&pmid=12044443&doi=10.1016/s0306-4522(02)00088-x&
https://doi.org/10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1278-04.2004
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC6729248/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15229238/
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?journal=Journal%20of%20Neuroscience&title=Prophylactic%20creatine%20administration%20mediates%20neuroprotection%20in%20cerebral%20ischemia%20in%20mice&author=S%20Zhu&author=M%20%C2%A0Li&author=BE%20%C2%A0Figueroa&author=A%20%C2%A0Liu&author=IG%20%C2%A0Stavrovskaya&volume=24&issue=26&publication_year=2004&pages=5909-12&pmid=15229238&doi=10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1278-04.2004&
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#abstract1
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#abstract2
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0029
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0037
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0038
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0057
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0061
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0062
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0065
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0066
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0098
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0093
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0095
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#CD010846-sec-0094
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#ref-list1
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/#
https://twitter.com/ncbi
https://www.facebook.com/ncbi.nlm
https://www.linkedin.com/company/ncbinlm
https://github.com/ncbi
https://ncbiinsights.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/
https://twitter.com/nlm_nih
https://www.facebook.com/nationallibraryofmedicine
https://www.youtube.com/user/NLMNIH
https://www.google.com/maps/place/8600+Rockville+Pike,+Bethesda,+MD+20894/%4038.9959508,%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20-77.101021,17z/data%3D!3m1!4b1!4m5!3m4!1s0x89b7c95e25765ddb%3A0x19156f88b27635b8!8m2!3d38.9959508!%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%20%204d-77.0988323
https://www.nlm.nih.gov/web_policies.html
https://www.nih.gov/institutes-nih/nih-office-director/office-communications-public-liaison/freedom-information-act-office
https://www.hhs.gov/vulnerability-disclosure-policy/index.html
https://support.nlm.nih.gov/?pagename=cloudpmc-viewer%3Apmc%3Aarticle%3Ajournal
https://www.nlm.nih.gov/accessibility.html
https://www.nlm.nih.gov/careers/careers.html
https://www.nlm.nih.gov/
https://www.nih.gov/
https://www.hhs.gov/
https://www.usa.gov/

IMAGES
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/us_flag.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/icon-dot-gov.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/icon-https.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/ncbi-logos/nih-nlm-ncbi--white.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/search.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/person.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/expand_less.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/expand_more.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/close.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons-bg/search--white.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/more_vert.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/launch.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/file_download.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/action-bookmark-full.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/action-bookmark-empty.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/format_quote.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/share.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/content_copy.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/list.svg
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/banners/logo-cochrev.png
https://cdn.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/pd-medc-pmc-cloudpmc-viewer/production/9b1d9d87/var/data/static/img/usa-icons/arrow_upward.svg
end https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/

FULL TEXT FOR URL https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10657457/ SAVED TO ./.webcats/https-pmc-ncbi-nlm-nih-gov-articles-PMC10657457-9a648c0.txt
Skip to main content
Accessibility help
Home
>Journals
>British Journal of Nutrition
>Volume 131 Issue 1
>Supplementation with (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid...
English
Français
British Journal of Nutrition
Article contents
Abstract
Methods
Results
Discussion
Supplementary material
References
Supplementation with (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid appears as effective as folic acid in maintaining maternal folate status while reducing unmetabolised folic acid in maternal plasma: a randomised trial of pregnant women in Canada

Published online by Cambridge University Press:  10 August 2023

Kelsey M. Cochrane
[Opens in a new window]
,
Rajavel Elango
,
Angela M. Devlin
,
Chantal Mayer
,
Jennifer A. Hutcheon
 and
Crystal D. Karakochuk
Show author details
Article
Figures
Supplementary materials
Metrics
Save PDF
Share
Cite
Rights & Permissions
[Opens in a new window]
Abstract

Folic acid supplementation is recommended during pregnancy to support healthy fetal development; (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid ((6S)-5-MTHF) is available in some commercial prenatal vitamins as an alternative to folic acid, but its effect on blood folate status during pregnancy is unknown. To address this, we randomised sixty pregnant individuals at 8–21 weeks’ gestation to 0·6 mg/d folic acid or (6S)-5-MTHF × 16 weeks. Fasting blood specimens were collected at baseline and after 16 weeks (endline). Erythrocyte and serum folate were quantified via microbiological assay (as globally recommended) and plasma unmetabolised folic acid (UMFA) via LC-MS/MS. Differences in biochemical folate markers between groups were explored using multivariable linear/quantile regression, adjusting for baseline concentrations, dietary folate intake and gestational weeks. At endline (n 54), the mean values and standard deviations (or median, inter-quartile range) of erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA (nmol/l) in those supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF v. folic acid, respectively, were 1826 (SD 471) and 1998 (SD 421); 70 (SD 13) and 78 (SD 17); 0·5 (0·4, 0·8) and 1·3 (0·9, 2·1). In regression analyses, erythrocyte and serum folate did not differ by treatment group; however, concentrations of plasma UMFA in pregnancy were 0·6 nmol/l higher (95 % CI 0·2, 1·1) in those supplementing with folic acid as compared with (6S)-5-MTHF. In conclusion, supplementation with (6S)-5-MTHF may reduce plasma UMFA by ∼50 % as compared with supplementation with folic acid, the biological relevance of which is unclear. As folate is currently available for purchase in both forms, the impact of circulating maternal UMFA on perinatal outcomes needs to be determined.

Keywords
Folate
Folic acid
(6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid
Pregnancy
Micronutrients
Information
Type
Research Article
Information
British Journal of Nutrition , Volume 131 , Issue 1 , 14 January 2024 , pp. 92 - 102
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0007114523001733 
[Opens in a new window]
Creative Commons
This is an Open Access article, distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution licence (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/), which permits unrestricted re-use, distribution and reproduction, provided the original article is properly cited.
Copyright
© Crown Copyright - The University of British Columbia, 2023. Published by Cambridge University Press on behalf of The Nutrition Society

Folate is an essential, water-soluble B-vitamin that is present in numerous chemically related forms (Fig. 1)(
Reference Shane
1). Naturally occurring folates are mainly reduced and polyglutamated, with 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (5-MTHF) being the predominant form in food and systemic circulation(
Reference Shane
1,
Reference Lucock
2) . Reduced folates serve as methyl donors in one carbon metabolism; thus, folate is critical during periods of growth, such as pregnancy, as it supports numerous physiological processes including cellular proliferation, re-methylation of homocysteine to methionine, nucleic acid synthesis and methylation of DNA, RNA, proteins and phospholipids(
Reference Ducker and Rabinowitz
3–
Reference Guéant, Namour and Guéant-Rodriguez
5).

Fig. 1.

Chemical structure of folic acid and (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid. (a) Folic acid; a synthetic analogue of the folate parent structure. Folic acid is fully oxidised, increasing its stability in supplements and fortified foods, and requires reduction via dihydrofolate reductase for co-enzymatic function. (b) Ca salt of (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid (Metafolin®); a synthetic analogue of natural 5-methyltetrahydrofolate.

To reduce the risk of neural tube defects (NTD), North American public health agencies advise all individuals of reproductive age to consume 0·4 mg/d folic acid, starting preconceptionally and continued throughout pregnancy and lactation(6–9). However, prenatal vitamins in these regions generally contain 0·6–1·0 mg folic acid(
Reference Lamers, Macfarlane and O’Connor
10–
Reference Bailey, Pac and Iii
12) and concerns have been raised regarding excessive intake in pregnancy(
Reference Lamers, Macfarlane and O’Connor
10,
Reference Maruvada, Stover and Mason
13) . Folic acid is a synthetic, oxidised form of folate (Fig. 1(a))(
Reference Shane
1,
Reference Lucock
2) ; as such, folic acid requires reduction by dihydrofolate reductase for use in one carbon metabolism(
Reference Pietrzik, Bailey and Shane
14). However, unmetabolised folic acid (UMFA) is detected in biological fluids upon folic acid intake, suggesting that the capacity of intestinal dihydrofolate reductase to reduce folic acid in humans may be limited(
Reference Patanwala, King and Barrett
15,
Reference Bailey and Ayling
16) . The biological and clinical relevance of UMFA on human health remains unclear(
Reference Pannia, Hammoud and Simonian
17).

An increasing number of prenatal vitamins contain (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid (Fig. 1(b); (6S)-5-MTHF)) as an alternative to folic acid(
Reference Saldanha, Dwyer and Haggans
11,18) . In 2019, 32 % of prescription and 25 % of non-prescription prenatal vitamins commercially available in the USA (as per the NIH Dietary Supplement Label and DailyMed databases) contained (6S)-5-MTHF; prior to 2015, none was listed(
Reference Saldanha, Dwyer and Haggans
11). Supplements in Canada which are marketed for use in pregnancy may contain folic acid or (6S)-5-MTHF, so long as a minimum dose of 0·4 mg is provided(18). A possible metabolic advantage of (6S)-5-MTHF is that it does not require reduction via dihydrofolate reductase, as it is already in an active form(
Reference Pietrzik, Bailey and Shane
14). However, there is no clear messaging from public health agencies regarding the difference of supplemental folate forms for pregnant individuals, as the effect of (6S)-5-MTHF on folate status during pregnancy has never been evaluated, and only folic acid has been shown to reduce the risk of NTD in randomised controlled trials(
Reference Viswanathan, Treiman and Kish-Doto
19–
Reference Czeizel and Dudás
21).

While supplementation with (6S)-5-MTHF has proven more effective than folic acid in non-pregnant women(
Reference Bailey and Ayling
22–
Reference Houghton, Sherwood and Pawlosky
25), pregnancy is a unique physiological state associated with numerous metabolic changes, including increased haemodilution, urinary excretion and micronutrient needs to support growth of maternal and fetal tissue(
Reference Tamura and Picciando
26,
Reference Cochrane, Williams and Elango
27) . Maternal plasma supplies folate to the fetus and uteroplacental organs to accommodate growth within these compartments(
Reference Tamura and Picciando
26). Placental folate receptors are established in early pregnancy(
Reference Solanky, Requena Jimenez and D’Souza
28), and folate accumulates in the intervillous space at a concentration three times that of maternal plasma for transportation of folate to the fetus against a concentration gradient(
Reference Tamura and Picciando
26,
Reference Antony
29) ; further, in ex-vivo experiments, the transport of folate from maternal to fetal perfusate has been found to be non-saturable(
Reference Tamura and Picciando
26,
Reference Bisseling, Steegers and van den Heuvel
30) . As (6S)-5-MTHF supplements are currently widely consumed by pregnant individuals(
Reference Saldanha, Dwyer and Haggans
11), despite a lack of evidence in pregnancy, it is imperative to ensure that (6S)-5-MTHF can maintain folate status to the same extent as folic acid during pregnancy.

This study aimed to generate estimates of folate status, including erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA following supplementation with 0·6 mg/d (6S)-5-MTHF or folic acid × 16 weeks of pregnancy. These estimates are a critical first step in understanding any differences between commercially available folate forms.

Methods
Study participants and design

The protocol for this two-armed randomised double-blind trial has previously been published(
Reference Cochrane, Mayer and Devlin
31). In brief, individuals aged 19–42 years with singleton pregnancies in Vancouver, Canada were recruited via printed posters and social media advertisements; full details on the recruitment methods are published elsewhere(
Reference Cochrane, Hutcheon and Karakochuk
32). The study took place between September 2019 and September 2021. Exclusion criteria included medical conditions, medications and behavioural factors (current smoking, alcohol consumption or recreational drug use) associated with altered folate status(
Reference Douglas Wilson
8), a pre-pregnancy BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2 and being medium to high risk for development of an NTD-affected pregnancy(
Reference Douglas Wilson
8). The trial is registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04022135). The study supplements were approved for clinical trial use by the natural and non-prescription health products directorate of Health Canada (Submission No. 244456). This study was conducted according to the guidelines laid down in the Declaration of Helsinki, and all procedures involving human subjects were approved by the UBC Clinical Research Ethics Board (H18-02635). Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects.

Eligible participants were scheduled for a baseline visit between 8 and 21 weeks’ gestation, with instructions to continue any folate supplementation until the day before this visit. At baseline, written informed consent was obtained (including confirmation of eligibility via a checklist), weight and height were measured and demographic information and usual intake of dietary folate equivalents (DFE; as per a validated FFQ; NutritionQuest(
Reference Clifford, Noceti and Block-Joy
33)) were collected. The Block Folic Acid/DFE Screener was used; this FFQ includes twenty-one items identified as the top dietary folate contributors as per National Health and nutrition examination survey (NHANES) 1999–2000. DFE are calculated based on the respondent’s reported frequency of consumption of each item, a default portion size (per the respondent’s age and sex) and the folate content listed in the US Department of Agriculture Food and Nutrient Database for Dietary Studies(
Reference Clifford, Noceti and Block-Joy
33). A conversion factor of 1·7 is used to convert µg supplemental folate (from supplements and folic acid fortified foods) to 1 µg DFE; 1 µg folate from natural food sources is equivalent to 1 µg DFE(
Reference Clifford, Noceti and Block-Joy
33,
Reference Bailey, Stover and McNulty
34) .

Participants were randomised to 0·6 mg/d folic acid or an equimolar dose (0·625 mg/d) of Metafolin® (Ca salt of (6S)-5-MTHF), based on molecular weights of 441·4 and 459·5 g/mol for folic acid and Metafolin®, respectively; a prenatal vitamin (NPN: 80025456) with folic acid removed was also provided to all participants. The randomisation sequence was produced by an independent statistician using permuted, equal blocks of four. Blinded allocations (‘A’ or ‘B’) for each study ID were kept in individual envelopes prepared by a research volunteer. Participants were assigned a unique study ID, and at baseline visits, the allocated supplements for that study ID were provided. Participants and the research team remained blinded to folate group allocations until final statistical analyses were complete. Participants were given all supplements needed for the 16-week intervention period and were instructed to begin supplementation immediately following baseline visits. Participants were contacted at the study midpoint (8 weeks after the baseline visit) to touch base and answer any questions about the trial.

Following 16 weeks, participants were scheduled for a second visit (endline). Participants had the option to continue supplementation for the postpartum study phase, to explore the effect on folate status after delivery (∼1 week postpartum); new written informed consent was obtained, and more study supplements were provided to those interested. Capsule counts were completed at endline and postpartum visits to assess adherence to daily supplementation. Participants were also given a supplement diary to record daily intake or reasons for missing a dose.

Blood collection and processing

Venous blood specimens were collected at baseline, endline and postpartum visits in a 4 ml serum tube, 6 ml EDTA tube and 2 ml EDTA tube (Becton Dickinson). At baseline and endline visits, participants were instructed to fast for 3 h to mitigate the influence of recent folic acid intake on plasma UMFA(
Reference Bailey and Ayling
16,
Reference Sweeney, McPartlin and Weir
35) . Blood specimen collections at postpartum visits were non-fasting to reduce participant burden, with instruction to consume the folate supplement 2 h prior to the visit (to standardise any peak in plasma UMFA following intake); erythrocyte folate is less sensitive to recent intake(
Reference Bailey, Stover and McNulty
34). After collection, tubes were shielded from light, inverted gently and transported to the laboratory for immediate processing (within 2 h of collection).

Whole blood (0·3 ml) was removed from the 6 ml EDTA tube and was diluted 1/11 with a 3 ml 1 % ascorbic acid solution, followed by incubation at 37°C for 30 min(
Reference Pirkle
36). Remaining whole blood in the 6 ml EDTA tube was centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 15 min at 4°C; plasma was separated into aliquots. Remaining contents in the 6 ml EDTA tube were processed for peripheral blood mononuclear cell isolation (SepMateTM STEMCELL Technologies). The 2 ml EDTA tube was used for a complete blood count, including haematocrit (L/L) determination via an automated haematology analyser (Sysmex XNL-550, Sysmex Corp.). Serum tubes were left at room temperature to clot for minimally 30 min and then centrifuged at 3000 rpm for 10 min at 4°C; serum was separated into aliquots. All specimens were frozen immediately after processing at –80°C until analysis.

Biochemical analyses

Total serum and whole blood folate (nmol/l) were determined as per the microbiological assay (Bevital AS) with chloramphenicol-resistant Lactobacillus rhamnosus and folic acid calibration, using previously described methods(
Reference Zhang, Sternberg and Pfeiffer
37). The inter-assay CV ranged from 3·1 to 5·6 % based on three quality controls that were analysed in duplicate. Erythrocyte folate (nmol/l) was subsequently calculated as recommended(
Reference Pirkle
36):

$$\begin{gathered}\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!\!{\text{Erythrocyte }}{\mkern 1mu} {\text{folate}}{\mkern 1mu} \hfill \\ = \frac{{\left( {Whole\;blood\;haemolysate\;folate{\mkern 1mu} \times {\mkern 1mu} 11} \right)\; - \;Serum\;folate\;\left( {1 - Haematocrit/100} \right)}}{{Haematocrit/100}} \hfill \\ \end{gathered}$$

Plasma UMFA (nmol/l) was determined via LC-MS/MS as previously described(
Reference Pfeiffer, Fazili and McCoy
38–
Reference Page, Robichaud and Arbuckle
42). The inter-assay CV for plasma UMFA was 8 %, as determined using internal quality control samples. Exploratory outcomes included other methyl nutrients and MTHFR 677 C > T variant genotyping. Plasma vitamin B12 (pmol/l) was determined via an immunoanalyser (Abbott Architect i1000; CV = 3·3 %). Plasma pyridoxal phosphate (PLP; nmol/l; CV = 8 %), total homocysteine (µmol/l; CV = 1·7 %), cysteine (µmol/l; CV = 1·4 %), methionine (µmol/l; CV = 1·1 %), free choline (µmol/l; CV = 5·4 %) and betaine (µmol/l; CV = 2·7 %) were determined using high-performance LC-MS/MS(
Reference Innis and Hasman
43,
Reference Dominguez-Salas, Moore and Cole
44) . Genotyping of MTHFR 677 C > T variant (rs1801133) was determined via pyrosequencing using PyromarkTM Q96 MD Pyrosequencer (Qiagen), as previously described(
Reference Clifford, Jones and MacIsaac
45). Plasma vitamin B12, PLP, total homocysteine, cysteine, methionine, free choline and betaine were quantified at baseline and endline visits only.

Statistical analyses

Participant demographic data and biochemical outcomes were summarised descriptively. Folate status in each group (erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA) was summarised using mean values and standard deviations or medians with inter-quartile ranges (IQR) if not normally distributed. The median (IQR) within-person change in folate status (erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA) from baseline to endline was calculated. The change in concentrations of erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA in each intervention group was further explored by evaluating differences in endline concentrations, adjusting for baseline concentrations, dietary folate intake and weeks gestation at supplement initiation, using multivariable linear regression (or multivariable quantile regression for non-normally distributed outcomes). Quantile regression was chosen over data transformations as it requires fewer assumptions about the underlying distribution and leads to more straightforward biological interpretations of the model estimates(
Reference Cook and Manning
46). Differences in postpartum erythrocyte folate were explored using quantile regression, adjusting for endline concentrations, dietary folate intake and total weeks supplementing. Postpartum concentrations of serum folate and plasma UMFA were not explored in adjusted models given their limited interpretability due to the non-fasting state. Covariates were chosen a priori; however, in a post-hoc protocol change, we opted not to adjust for exploratory biomarkers (other methyl nutrients, MTHFR genotype) as no clinically meaningful differences in biochemical markers between groups were observed, and due to few participants with the homozygous (TT) polymorphism (n 2 in the folic acid group). All analyses were completed on an intention-to-treat basis. Due to high adherence to the study protocol throughout the trial (median (IQR) adherence to daily supplementation = 98 % (96 %, 100 %), as per capsule counts), per-protocol analyses were deemed unnecessary. A P value < 0·05 was considered statistically significant.

Sample size considerations

The sample size was based on the number of participants generally recognised as sufficient for conducting a pilot study in clinical research (n 50)(
Reference Sim and Lewis
47), with the aim of generating estimates that can be used to inform a definitive trial. To account for an estimated 20 % attrition, we aimed to recruit a total of sixty participants to the current study.

Results

Overall, sixty participants completed baseline visits, fifty-four completed endline visits (retention rate of 90 %) and thirty-seven provided a postpartum blood specimen (retention rate of 69 %). One participant delivered prematurely and could not participate in the endline visit; however, they provided a postpartum blood specimen. See Fig. 2 for the participant flow diagram. Adherence to daily supplementation as per capsule counts was high, with rates of daily supplementation in 93 % (n 50) of participants ≥ 90 %. At postpartum visits, 92 % (n 34) of participants had rates of daily adherence ≥ 90 %. Per the supplement diary, primary reasons for a missed dose included: fatigue, forgetting, illness (gastrointestinal distress), being on vacation and lack of intake while admitted to hospital for delivery.

Fig. 2.

Participant flow diagram. The folic acid group includes n 19 at the postpartum visit; this includes n 18 from endline (n 7 chose to not participate in the postpartum blood draw) and n 1 who delivered prematurely (thus, did not participate in the endline visit), but provided a postpartum blood specimen.

Participant characteristics are presented in Table 1. Participants appeared similar between groups and were ∼33 years of age, highly educated (n 58 (97 %) with post-secondary education) and predominantly nulliparous (73 %). All participants reported a pre-pregnancy BMI < 30 km/m2; median (IQR) gestational weight gain from baseline to endline was 0·44 kg/week (0·36–0·56) and 0·46 kg/week (0·39–0·56) in the (6S)-5-MTHF and folic acid groups, respectively (missing n 3 endline weights). The intervention period from baseline to endline was 16 weeks (± 6 days); however, due to COVID-19 pandemic countermeasures, endline visits for n 5 (n 2 in the (6S)-5-MTHF group and n 3 in the folic acid group) were moved earlier or delayed; the min/max intervention period was 13/17 weeks in the (6S)-5-MTHF group and 14/20 weeks in the folic acid group. The postpartum visit was planned for ∼1 week after delivery; however, this varied slightly based on participant availability; the median (IQR) days postpartum in the (6S)-5-MTHF and folic acid groups, respectively, was day 9 (7–11 d) and day 8 (7–10 d); overall, weeks of supplementing from baseline to postpartum were 24 (SD 4) weeks.

Table 1.

Participant characteristics of pregnant individuals supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF or folic acid (Vancouver, Canada, 2019–2021) (Numbers and percentages; mean values and standard deviations; medians and inter-quartile ranges)

(6S)-5-MTHF, (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid; DFE, dietary folate equivalents.

* Missing n 2 household income in the folic acid group (participants chose not to disclose).

† As determined by the FFQ.

‡ Supplementation prior to study enrolment; all participants reported folate supplementation prior to study enrolment, which was discontinued and replaced with the study vitamins at baseline.

§ Lacto-ovo-vegetarian (n 1), pescatarian (n 1), vegan (n 1), gluten-free (n 3), other (n 2).

Baseline biochemical outcomes are presented in Table 2; outcomes at endline and postpartum visits are presented in Table 3 (erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA) and online Supplementary Table 1 (exploratory outcomes: vitamin B12, PLP, total homocysteine, cysteine, methionine, free choline and betaine). While cut-offs during pregnancy are not established, median concentrations of vitamin B12 and PLP remained above cut-offs for deficiency in non-pregnant women (vitamin B12 < 148 pmol/l and PLP < 20 nmol/l), and total homocysteine remained < 13 µmol/l (cut-off for hyperhomocysteinaemia) in all participants, at all visits(
Reference Visentin, Masih and Plumptre
48,
Reference Plumptre, Masih and Sohn
49) . No participants had erythrocyte folate (< 305 nmol/l) or serum folate (< 7 nmol/l) indicative of deficiency at any point(
Reference Pfeiffer, Sternberg and Hamner
50). Further, erythrocyte folate remained > 906 nmol/l in all participants throughout the study (a cut-off associated with maximal risk reduction of NTD(
Reference Lamers, Macfarlane and O’Connor
10,
Reference Daly, Kirke and Molloy
51) ). Plasma UMFA was detectable in all participants at all timepoints.

Table 2.

Baseline biochemical outcomes in pregnant individuals supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF or folic acid (Vancouver, Canada, 2019–2021) (Medians and inter-quartile ranges; numbers and percentages)

(6S)-5-MTHF, (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid; UMFA, unmetabolised folic acid.

Results are median (IQR) unless otherwise noted. Missing n 1 in the (6S)-5-MTHF group for the assessment of some exploratory plasma outcomes due to insufficient blood sample (n 29 for pyridoxal phosphate, total homocysteine, cysteine, methionine, choline, betaine).

Table 3.

Effect of supplemental folate form on late pregnancy and postpartum erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA among pregnant individuals supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF or folic acid (Vancouver, Canada, 2019–2021) (Mean values and standard deviation; 95 % confidence intervals)

UMFA, unmetabolised folic acid; (6S)-5-MTHF, (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid; IQR, inter-quartile range.

n 54 participants included for all endline analyses (crude and adjusted); n 36 participants included for crude estimates of postpartum erythrocyte folate and serum folate (missing n 1 due to insufficient blood sample); n 35 participants included for adjusted estimates of postpartum erythrocyte folate (missing n 2 due to (1) insufficient blood sample and (2) missed endline visit due to premature delivery, participated in postpartum visit only); n 37 participants included for crude estimates of postpartum plasma UMFA.

* Endline outcomes adjusted for: folate form ((6S)-5-MTHF as the reference group), baseline values (nmol/l), weeks of gestation at baseline and dietary folate intake (mg dietary folate equivalents/d). Postpartum erythrocyte folate adjusted for: folate form ((6S)-5-MTHF as the reference group), endline values (nmol/l), total weeks supplementing and dietary folate intake (mg dietary folate equivalents/d).

We note a high degree of inter-individual variability of within-person change in folate status during pregnancy; the median (IQR) within-person change from baseline to endline in erythrocyte and serum folate, respectively, in those supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF was 88 nmol/l (26, 346) and 2·5 nmol/l (–9·8, 15), and in those supplemented with folic acid was 368 nmol/l (–81, 549) and 0·8 nmol/l (–15, 15). In those supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF, plasma UMFA decreased by a median (IQR) of 0·5 nmol/l (0·9, 0·2), representing a ∼50 % decrease at endline. Conversely, in those supplemented with folic acid, plasma UMFA remained mostly consistent from baseline to endline (median (IQR) within-person change = 0·03 nmol/l (–0·2, 0·9)).

Crude and adjusted differences between intervention groups in erythrocyte folate, serum folate and plasma UMFA at endline and postpartum visits are presented in Table 3 (see online Supplementary Table 2 for full model outputs). Concentrations of erythrocyte and serum folate at endline and postpartum were not clinically different between intervention groups, as both groups were well-above cut-offs for deficiency or NTD risk reduction, with a high degree of overlap and variability in crude concentrations (± ∼450 nmol/l for erythrocyte folate and ± ∼15 nmol/l for serum folate, at endline); differences in erythrocyte and serum folate were also not statistically significant, as the 95 % CI for all crude and adjusted differences crossed 0. Conversely, there appeared to be a meaningful difference in plasma UMFA at endline and postpartum, as there was no overlap in the IQR of crude estimates, and concentrations were significantly higher at endline (adjusted difference = 0·6 nmol/l, 95 % CI 0·2, 1·1) and postpartum (crude difference = 12 nmol/l, 95 % CI 6·1, 19) in those supplemented with folic acid as compared with (6S)-5-MTHF.

Discussion

In this investigation of sixty folate-replete, low-risk, singleton pregnancies, supplementation with 0·625 mg/d (6S)-5-MTHF and an equimolar dose of folic acid (0·6 mg/d) appeared similarly effective in maintaining folate status (erythrocyte and serum folate) in pregnancy and after delivery. The most meaningful difference between supplemental folate forms was the effect on plasma UMFA, as supplementation with folic acid resulted in significantly higher circulating concentrations of UMFA as compared with (6S)-5-MTHF.

Investigations in non-pregnant(
Reference Bailey and Ayling
22–
Reference Lamers, Prinz-langenohl and Bramswig
24) and lactating(
Reference Houghton, Sherwood and Pawlosky
25) women have reported that (6S)-5-MTHF is more effective than folic acid in raising erythrocyte and/or serum folate concentrations. Bailey et al. (
Reference Bailey and Ayling
22) conducted a pharmacokinetic investigation of 7·5 mg/d (6S)-5-MTHF or folic acid × 3 d, followed by 0·4 mg/d × 2 weeks; those supplemented with (6S)-5-MTHF more quickly achieved the target cut-off (serum total folate >50 nmol/l), but by day 12, there were no differences between groups(
Reference Bailey and Ayling
22). Henderson et al. (
Reference Henderson, Aleliunas and Loh
23) and Lamers et al. (
Reference Lamers, Prinz-langenohl and Bramswig
24) investigated (6S)-5-MTHF and folic acid supplementation at 1·0 mg/d × 12 weeks(
Reference Henderson, Aleliunas and Loh
23) and 0·4 mg/d × 24 weeks(
Reference Lamers, Prinz-langenohl and Bramswig
24) in non-pregnant women of childbearing age; both reported greater increases in erythrocyte folate concentrations following (6S)-5-MTHF supplementation and an equal or increased effect on plasma folate concentrations. Similarly, Houghton et al. (
Reference Houghton, Sherwood and Pawlosky
25) reported significantly higher erythrocyte folate concentrations in those supplementing with (6S)-5-MTHF v. folic acid at 0·4 mg/d × 16 weeks during lactation. While we did not investigate pharmacokinetic action, we propose that the lack of differences in erythrocyte and serum folate found between groups in the current study may be attributed to changes in folate handling during pregnancy(
Reference Tamura and Picciando
26); perhaps any increased effect of (6S)-5-MTHF on folate status as compared with folic acid was nullified due to the abundant transfer of folate from maternal plasma to the placenta and fetus, or due to increased folate catabolism and excretion, particularly in later pregnancy(
Reference McPartlin, Weir and Halligan
52,
Reference Higgins, Quinlivin and McPartlin
53) .

While the difference in plasma concentrations of UMFA between groups was modest after fasting, there did appear to be a meaningful effect driven by supplemental folate form. All participants reported supplementation with folate prior to study enrolment; as per the type of folate or brand of prenatal vitamin, >90 % consumed folic acid. At baseline visits, plasma UMFA was ∼1 nmol/l in both groups; we did not observe continued increases of UMFA in the folic acid group (UMFA remained at ∼1 nmol/l at endline); however, concentrations in the (6S)-5-MTHF group decreased by ∼50 %. Fasting state and folic acid supplementation have previously been identified as the strongest predictors of circulating UMFA(
Reference Pfeiffer, Sternberg and Fazili
54,
Reference Pfeiffer, Sternberg and Fazili
55) . We do suspect a high degree of UMFA clearance following the (minimum) 3 h fast, given comparison with non-fasting postpartum UMFA values (see Table 3). However, as per NHANES 2007–2008(
Reference Pfeiffer, Sternberg and Fazili
55), plasma UMFA concentrations remain significantly higher after fasting ≥ 8 h in folic acid supplement users (∼1 nmol/l) v. non-supplement users (∼0·7 nmol/l). Overall, it seems that a significant reduction of UMFA in plasma can be effectively achieved by supplementation with (6S)-5-MTHF. Ultimately, it is noted that while plasma UMFA is different between groups, after fasting, concentrations are relatively low overall. Thus, the biological relevance of this difference is uncertain.

Excess folic acid intake has been associated with various adverse health outcomes for both the mother and child(
Reference Lamers, Macfarlane and O’Connor
10,
Reference Maruvada, Stover and Mason
13,
Reference Pannia, Hammoud and Simonian
17) . Clinical concerns related to offspring health include neurodevelopmental disorders(
Reference Husebye, Wendel and Gilhus
56–
Reference Egorova, Myte and Schneede
63), allergic diseases(
Reference McGowan, Hong and Selhub
64–
Reference Molloy, Collier and Saffery
68), metabolic outcomes(
Reference Pannia, Hammoud and Simonian
17,
Reference Henderson, Tai and Aleliunas
69–
Reference Xie, Liu and Retnakaran
72) and poor fetal growth (small-for-gestational-age birth)(
Reference Pastor-Valero, Navarrete-Muoz and Rebagliato
73,
Reference Li, Li and Ye
74) . However, results in human studies are mixed, with some reporting a harmful association(
Reference Raghavan, Selhub and Paul
58,
Reference Egorova, Myte and Schneede
63–
Reference Whitrow, Moore and Rumbold
65,
Reference Pastor-Valero, Navarrete-Muoz and Rebagliato
73) , null findings(
Reference Husebye, Wendel and Gilhus
56,
Reference Wang, Wei and Wang
59,
Reference Best, Green and Sulistyoningrum
66–
Reference Molloy, Collier and Saffery
68,
Reference Crider, Wang and Ling
75) or a protective effect(
Reference Caffrey, McNulty and Rollins
57,
Reference Levine, Kodesh and Viktorin
60–
Reference Schmidt, Tancredi and Ozonoff
62,
Reference Li, Li and Ye
74) of maternal folic acid supplementation. Further, the effects of folic acid may vary by dose; for example, folic acid supplementation at recommended doses (0·4 mg/d) is associated with a reduced risk of small-for-gestational-age(
Reference Li, Li and Ye
74), whereas intakes > 1·0 mg have shown an increased risk(
Reference Pastor-Valero, Navarrete-Muoz and Rebagliato
73). It is proposed that UMFA demonstrates a dose–response relation with adverse outcomes, whereby higher UMFA is associated with greater risk(
Reference Maruvada, Stover and Mason
13,
Reference McGee, Bainbridge and Fontaine-Bisson
76) .

Interpretation of findings is further complicated by a lack of clarity as to whether concerns are related specifically to folic acid, or more generally, a ‘high’ folate status. While a cut-off for ‘high’ erythrocyte folate is not established, 1360 nmol/l was reflective of the 97th percentile as per NHANES 1999–2004(
Reference Pfeiffer, Johnson and Jain
77,
Reference Colapinto, O’Connor and Tremblay
78) . Overall, it is very difficult for pregnant individuals in North America to consume only 0·4 mg/d folic acid, due to folic acid food fortification and as the vast majority of prenatal vitamins contain 0·6–1·0 mg folic acid(
Reference Lamers, Macfarlane and O’Connor
10,
Reference Saldanha, Dwyer and Haggans
11,
Reference Patti, Braun and Arbuckle
79–
Reference Dubois, Diasparra and Bedard
81) ; this has contributed to very high folate levels (erythrocyte folate ∼1500–2500 nmol/l) among pregnant and lactating individuals(
Reference Lamers, Macfarlane and O’Connor
10,
Reference Plumptre, Masih and Ly
82–
Reference Stamm, March and Karakochuk
84) ; similarly high erythrocyte and serum folate concentrations were evident in the current study. Those consuming folic acid from fortified foods and prenatal vitamins are very likely to exceed the tolerable upper intake level of 1·0 mg/d folic acid(
Reference Bailey, Pac and Iii
12,
Reference Patti, Braun and Arbuckle
79–
Reference Dubois, Diasparra and Bedard
81,
Reference Ledowsky, Mahimbo and Scarf
85) .

Other considerations regarding the use of (6S)-5-MTHF v. folic acid include the lack of an established conversion factor of (6S)-5-MTHF to DFE, stability differences and cost. North American supplement manufacturers are permitted to use the folic acid factor of 1·7 to convert µg (6S)-5-MTHF to DFE(
Reference Saldanha, Dwyer and Haggans
11,
Reference Pannia, Hammoud and Simonian
17) . Appropriateness of this is unclear, given potential differences in bioavailability as observed in non-pregnant populations(
Reference Turck, Bohn and Castenmiller
86); however, findings of the current trial suggest that bioavailability of folate forms during pregnancy may differ from non-pregnant individuals, in that a greater effect of (6S)-5-MTHF on folate status was not observed at a 0·6 mg dose. Ca salt of (6S)-5-MTHF (Metafolin®) is stable in its crystalline form for use in supplements(
Reference Obeid, Schön and Pietrzik
87,88) . As a food fortificant in white flour, stability of (6S)-5-MTHF can be improved via microencapsulation technology, alone or in combination with sodium ascorbate(
Reference Liu, Green and Wong
89,
Reference Green, Liu and Dadgar
90) ; however, large-scale implementation of these techniques has had limited success in practice(
Reference Kitts and Liu
91) and only folic acid is currently used in North American food fortification programmes(
Reference Ami, Bernstein and Boucher
92). Finally, given the increased cost of (6S)-5-MTHF v. folic acid, compelling evidence of its improved safety as compared with folic acid is likely required before it would be considered for use in population-wide food fortification programmes.

Ultimately, a definitive trial is required to confirm that erythrocyte and serum folate are similarly maintained following supplementation with (6S)-5-MTHF and folic acid during pregnancy; while we found no evidence for a clinically important difference, the upper end of the 95 % CI for the adjusted difference in erythrocyte folate between groups at endline was 400 nmol/l, favouring a stronger response following folic acid supplementation. Interpretation of this is limited as a non-inferiority margin was not pre-specified in our protocol, as this was a pilot trial. Overall, we hypothesise that the 95 % CI would tighten following assessment in a larger sample size, suggesting a similar effect of both forms at a 0·6 mg dose, given that overall there was a high degree of variability in folate estimates, 95 % CIs were wide and crossed 0, and a stronger response to folic acid contradicts the body of evidence on dose–response of folic acid v. (6S)-5-MTHF(
Reference Turck, Bohn and Castenmiller
86). Both biochemical (e.g. folate status, plasma UMFA) and clinical outcomes should be evaluated in a definitive trial; we suggest assessment of fetal growth and neurodevelopment as outcomes of interest(
Reference Lamers, Macfarlane and O’Connor
10,
Reference Maruvada, Stover and Mason
13) .

Limitations include the small sample size, as this was a pilot trial which aimed to generate estimates for a definitive trial. While a 3 h fast was selected to mitigate the effect of folic acid on plasma UMFA(
Reference Bailey and Ayling
16,
Reference Sweeney, McPartlin and Weir
35) , total serum folate concentrations may still have been influenced by recent intake within this time frame(
Reference Bailey, Stover and McNulty
34,
Reference Pfeiffer, Sternberg and Fazili
55) . Estimation of dietary folate intake was only assessed once (at baseline); thus, its accuracy in later pregnancy and after delivery is uncertain. Dietary folate assessment via an FFQ can be useful when assessing a single nutrient over a longer period, as it captures food sources that may be consumed only occasionally and thus may be missed via other methods(
Reference Park, Dodd and Kipnis
93). However, previous research indicates that FFQ may overestimate folate intake(
Reference Park, Dodd and Kipnis
93,
Reference Green, Allen and O’Connor
94) . We further note that the FFQ used was an American tool; while dietary patterns of those in Canada v. the USA may differ, green salads, orange juice, bread products and cold cereals are reported as top folate contributors for pregnant and lactating Canadians(
Reference Masih, Plumptre and Ly
80,
Reference Sherwood, Houghton and Tarasuk
95) , all of which were included on the folate screener. Both countries fortify foods with folic acid at similar rates (0·14 and 0·15 mg per 100 g white flour and cereals in the USA and Canada, respectively), aiming to provide ∼0·1 mg/d(
Reference Crider, Bailey and Berry
96). However, DFE of folate supplementation prior to the trial as per the FFQ are likely underestimated; the median (IQR) mg DFE from supplements was 0·7 (0·7, 0·7 mg DFE), assuming a folic acid dose of 0·4 mg (×1·7 = 0·7 mg DFE). While the dose of folate provided in the study (0·6 mg/d) was chosen to improve generalisability, given that it matches folic acid content in leading Canadian brands (Materna®), over-the-counter prenatal vitamins contain varying quantities of folate (often 1 mg in Canada). Finally, timing of supplement initiation varied widely (8–21 weeks). While folate recommendations in Canada and the USA do not differ based on gestational weeks, we note a potential limitation when comparing folate status of those across different stages of pregnancy.

In conclusion, supplementation with (6S)-5-MTHF resulted in similar erythrocyte and serum folate concentrations as folic acid during pregnancy and after delivery, while reducing maternal plasma UMFA. More research is needed to confirm whether there is any risk associated with folic acid supplementation in pregnancy (particularly at doses > 0·4 mg) or the presence of plasma UMFA. This should be followed by the establishment of high-risk cut-offs for maternal folate status, which can be incorporated into perinatal clinical practice guidelines, and re-formulation of prenatal vitamins available in North America (perhaps by lowering the dose to 0·4 mg), to support achievement of optimal maternal folate status. Results of this study should be confirmed in a definitive trial; however, the current findings are very timely and of interest immediately, as both folate forms are currently widely available and consumed in pregnancy at a dose of 0·6 mg/d or greater.

Acknowledgements

We thank our research assistant, Dahlia Parolin, for her assistance with double data entry. Erythrocyte and serum folate were quantified by microbiological assay at Bevital AS (Bergen, Norway) and plasma UMFA was quantified at the University of British Columbia (Vancouver, Canada). Plasma vitamin B12, PLP, total homocysteine, cysteine, methionine, free choline and betaine were performed at the Analytical Core for Metabolomics and Nutrition at the BC Children’s Hospital Research Institute, Core Technologies and Services (Vancouver, Canada; Roger Dyer). Genotyping of MTHFR 677 C > T variant (rs1801133) was determined in the Kobor Lab at the BC Children’s Hospital Research Institute (Vancouver, Canada).

This work was supported by a Healthy Starts Catalyst Grant, BC Children’s Hospital Research Institute (C. D. K., J. A. H., R. E., C. M.). K. M. C. was supported by Frederick Banting and Charles Best Canada Graduate Scholarship Doctoral Award from the Canadian Institute of Health Research. C. D. K. was supported by a Michael Smith Foundation for Health Research Scholar Award and holds a Canada Research Chair in Micronutrients and Human Health. J. A. H. holds a Canada Research Chair in Perinatal Population Health. A. M. D. was supported by an Investigator Grant from BC Children’s Hospital Research Institute. Natural Factors® Canada manufactured the study supplements and donated the raw materials for folic acid and prenatal vitamin compounding; Merck & Cie (Schaffhausen, Switzerland) donated the (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid (Metafolin®). Funders had no role in the design, analysis or writing of this article.

Study concept: R. E., C. M., J. A. H. and C. D. K. Finalisation of the study protocol: K. M. C., R. E., A. M. D., C. M., J. A. H. and C. D. K. Data collection, analysis and drafting of the manuscript: K. M. C. Manuscript revisions and final writing: K. M. C., R. E., A. M. D., C. M., J. A. H. and C. D. K. C. D. K. has primary responsibility for final content; all authors have read and approved the final manuscript.

There are no conflicts of interest.

Supplementary material

For supplementary materials referred to in this article, please visit https://doi.org/10.1017/S0007114523001733

References
1
Shane, B (2008) Folate and vitamin B12 metabolism: overview and interaction with riboflavin, vitamin B6, and polymorphisms. Food Nutr Bull 29, S5–16.Google Scholar
2
Lucock, M (2000) Folic acid: nutritional biochemistry, molecular biology, and role in disease processes. Mol Genet Metab 71, 121–138.Google Scholar
3
Ducker, G & Rabinowitz, J (2017) One-carbon metabolism in liver health and disease. Cell Metab 25, 27–49.Google Scholar
4
Tibbetts, AS & Appling, DR (2010) Compartmentalization of mammalian folate-mediated one-carbon metabolism. Annu Rev Nutr 30, 57–81.Google Scholar
5
Guéant, JL, Namour, F, Guéant-Rodriguez, RM, et al. (2013) Folate and fetal programming: a play in epigenomics? Trends Endocrinol Metab 24, 279–289.Google Scholar
6
Health Canada (2010) Dietary Reference Intakes (Internet). Ottawa, ON, Canada. https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/food-nutrition/healthy-eating/dietary-reference-intakes/tables/reference-values-vitamins-dietary-reference-intakes-tables-2005.html (accessed December 2022).Google Scholar
7
Lamers, Y (2011) Folate recommendations for pregnancy, lactation, and infancy. Ann Nutr Metab 59, 32–37.Google Scholar
8
Douglas Wilson, R (2015) SOGC Clinical Practice Guideline: pre-conception folic acid and multivitamin supplementation for the primary and secondary prevention of neural tube defects and other folic acid-sensitive congenital anomalies. J Obs Gynaecol Can 37, 534–549.Google Scholar
9
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention & National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities (2022) Folic Acid Recommendations (Internet). Atlanta, GA, USA. https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/folicacid/recommendations.html (accessed January 2023).Google Scholar
10
Lamers, Y, Macfarlane, AJ, O’Connor, DL, et al. (2018) Periconceptional intake of folic acid among low-risk women in Canada: summary of a workshop aiming to align prenatal folic acid supplement composition with current expert guidelines. Am J Clin Nutr 108, 1357–1368.Google Scholar
11
Saldanha, LG, Dwyer, JT, Haggans, CJ, et al. (2020) Perspective: time to resolve confusion on folate amounts, units, and forms in prenatal supplements. Adv Nutr 11, 753–759.Google Scholar
12
Bailey, RL, Pac, SG, Iii, VLF, et al. (2019) Estimation of total usual dietary intakes of pregnant women in the United States. JAMA Netw Open 2, e195967.Google Scholar
13
Maruvada, P, Stover, PJ, Mason, JB, et al. (2020) Knowledge gaps in understanding the metabolic and clinical effects of excess folates/folic acid: a summary, and perspectives, from an NIH workshop. Am J Clin Nutr 112, 1390–1403.Google Scholar
14
Pietrzik, K, Bailey, L & Shane, B (2010) Folic acid and L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate: comparison of clinical pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. Clin Pharmacokinet 49, 535–548.Google Scholar
15
Patanwala, I, King, MJ, Barrett, DA, et al. (2014) Folic acid handling by the human gut: implications for food fortification and supplementation. Am J Clin Nutr 100, 593–599.CrossRefGoogle ScholarPubMed
16
Bailey, SW & Ayling, JE (2009) The extremely slow and variable activity of dihydrofolate reductase in human liver and its implications for high folic acid intake. PNAS 106, 15424–15429.CrossRefGoogle ScholarPubMed
17
Pannia, E, Hammoud, R, Simonian, R, et al. (2022) Folate dose and form during pregnancy may program maternal and fetal health and disease risk. Nutr Rev 80, 2187–2197.Google Scholar
18
Health Canada (2022) Multi-Vitamin/Mineral Supplements Monograph (Internet). Ottawa, ON, Canada. pp. 1–71. https://webprod.hc-sc.gc.ca/nhpid-bdipsn/atReq.do?atid=multi_vitmin_suppl (accessed December 2022).Google Scholar
19
Viswanathan, M, Treiman, KA, Kish-Doto, J, et al. (2017) Folic acid supplementation for the prevention of neural tube defects an updated evidence report and systematic review for the US preventive services task force. JAMA 317, 190–203.Google Scholar
20
MRC Vitamin Study Research Group (1991) Prevention of neural tube defects: results of the Medical Research Council Vitamin Study. Lancet 338, 131–137.CrossRefGoogle Scholar
21
Czeizel, AE & Dudás, I (1992) Prevention of the first occurrence of neural-tube defects by periconceptional vitamin supplementation. N Engl J Med 327, 1832–1835.Google Scholar
22
Bailey, SW & Ayling, JE (2018) The pharmacokinetic advantage of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate for minimization of the risk for birth defects. Sci Rep 8, 4096.Google Scholar
23
Henderson, AM, Aleliunas, RE, Loh, SP, et al. (2018) L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate supplementation increases blood folate concentrations to a greater extent than folic acid supplementation in Malaysian women. J Nutr 148, 855–890.Google Scholar
24
Lamers, Y, Prinz-langenohl, R, Bramswig, S, et al. (2006) Red blood cell folate concentrations increase more after supplementation with (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolate than with folic acid in women of childbearing age. Am J Clin Nutr 84, 156–161.Google Scholar
25
Houghton, LA, Sherwood, KL, Pawlosky, R, et al. (2006) (6S)-5-Methyltetrahydrofolate is at least as effective as folic acid in preventing a decline in blood folate concentrations during lactation. Am J Clin Nutr 83, 842–850.Google Scholar
26
Tamura, T & Picciando, MF (2006) Folate and human reproduction. Am J Clin Nutr 83, 993–1016.Google Scholar
27
Cochrane, KM, Williams, BA, Elango, R, et al. (2022) Pregnancy-induced alterations of 1-carbon metabolism and significance for maternal nutrition requirements. Nutr Rev 80, 1985–2001.Google Scholar
28
Solanky, N, Requena Jimenez, A, D’Souza, SW, et al. (2010) Expression of folate transporters in human placenta and implications for homocysteine metabolism. Placenta 31, 134–143.Google Scholar
29
Antony, AC (1996) Folate receptors. Ann Rev Nutr 16, 501–521.Google Scholar
30
Bisseling, TM, Steegers, EAP, van den Heuvel, JJM, et al. (2004) Placental folate transport and binding are not impaired in pregnancies complicated by fetal growth restriction. Placenta 25, 588–593.Google Scholar
31
Cochrane, KM, Mayer, C, Devlin, AM, et al. (2020) Is natural (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid as effective as synthetic folic acid in increasing serum and red blood cell folate concentrations during pregnancy? A proof-of-concept pilot study. Trials 21, 380.Google Scholar
32
Cochrane, KM, Hutcheon, JA & Karakochuk, CD (2022) Strategies for improving recruitment of pregnant women to clinical research: an evaluation of social media v. traditional offline methods. Digit Heal 8, 1–10.Google Scholar
33
Clifford, AJ, Noceti, EM, Block-Joy, A, et al. (2005) Erythrocyte folate and its response to folic acid supplementation is assay dependent in women. J Nutr 135, 137–143.Google Scholar
34
Bailey, LB, Stover, PJ, McNulty, H, et al. (2015) Biomarkers of nutrition for development-Folate review. J Nutr 145, 1636S–1680S.Google Scholar
35
Sweeney, MR, McPartlin, J, Weir, DG, et al. (2006) Postprandial serum folic acid response to multiple doses of folic acid in fortified bread. Br J Nutr 95, 145–151.Google Scholar
36
Pirkle, J (2014) CDC Laboratory Procedure Manual, Total Folate, Serum/Whole Blood Microbiological Assay. https://wwwn.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhanes/2013-2014/labmethods/FOLATE_H_MET.pdf (accessed August 2023).Google Scholar
37
Zhang, M, Sternberg, MR & Pfeiffer, CM (2018) Harmonizing the calibrator and microorganism used in the folate microbiological assay increases the comparability of serum and whole-blood folate results in a CDC round-robin study. J Nutr 148, 807–817.Google Scholar
38
Pfeiffer, C, Fazili, Z, McCoy, L, et al. (2004) Determination of folate vitamers in human serum by stable-isotope-dilution tandem mass spectrometry and comparison with radioassay and microbiologic assay. Clin Chem 50, 423–432.Google Scholar
39
Fazili, Z & Pfeiffer, CM (2013) Accounting for an isobaric interference allows correct determination of folate vitamers in serum by isotope dilution liquid chromatography-tandem MS. J Nutr 143, 108–113.Google Scholar
40
Stamm, RA, Fazili, Z & Pfeiffer, CM (2018) Addition of exogenous γ-glutamyl hydrolase eliminates the need for lengthy incubation of whole-blood lysate for quantitation of folate vitamers by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Curr Dev Nutr 2, nx003.Google Scholar
41
Fazili, Z, Sternberg, MR, Paladugula, N, et al. (2017) Two international round-robin studies showed good comparability of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate but poor comparability of folic acid measured in serum by different high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry methods. J Nutr 147, 1815–1825.Google Scholar
42
Page, R, Robichaud, A, Arbuckle, TE, et al. (2017) Total folate and unmetabolized folic acid in the breast milk of a cross-section of Canadian women. Am J Clin Nutr 105, 1101–1109.Google Scholar
43
Innis, SM & Hasman, D (2006) Evidence of choline depletion and reduced betaine and dimethylglycine with increased homocysteine in plasma of children with cystic fibrosis. J Nutr 136, 2226–2231.Google Scholar
44
Dominguez-Salas, P, Moore, SE, Cole, D, et al. (2013) DNA methylation potential: dietary intake and blood concentrations of one-carbon metabolites and cofactors in rural African women. Am J Clin Nutr 97, 1217–1227.Google Scholar
45
Clifford, RL, Jones, MJ, MacIsaac, JL, et al. (2017) Inhalation of diesel exhaust and allergen alters human bronchial epithelium DNA methylation. J Allergy Clin Immunol 139, 112–121.Google Scholar
46
Cook, B & Manning, W (2013) Thinking beyond the mean: a practical guide for using quantile regression methods for health services research. Shanghai Arch Psychiatry 25, 55–59.Google Scholar
47
Sim, J & Lewis, M (2012) The size of a pilot study for a clinical trial should be calculated in relation to considerations of precision and efficiency. J Clin Epidemiol 65, 301–308.Google Scholar
48
Visentin, CE, Masih, SP, Plumptre, L, et al. (2016) Low serum vitamin B-12 concentrations are prevalent in a cohort of pregnant Canadian women. J Nutr 146, 1035–1042.Google Scholar
49
Plumptre, L, Masih, SP, Sohn, KJ, et al. (2018) Suboptimal maternal and cord plasma pyridoxal 5′ phosphate concentrations are uncommon in a cohort of Canadian pregnant women and newborn infants. Matern Child Nutr 14, e12467.Google Scholar
50
Pfeiffer, CM, Sternberg, MR, Hamner, HC, et al. (2016) Applying inappropriate cutoffs leads to misinterpretation of folate status in the US population. Am J Clin Nutr 104, 1607–1615.Google Scholar
51
Daly, LE, Kirke, P, Molloy, A, et al. (1995) Folate levels and neural tube defects. JAMA 274, 1698–1702.Google Scholar
52
McPartlin, J, Weir, D, Halligan, A, et al. (1993) Accelerated folate breakdown in pregnancy. Lancet 341, 148–149.CrossRefGoogle ScholarPubMed
53
Higgins, J, Quinlivin, E, McPartlin, J, et al. (2001) The relationship between increased folate catabolism and the increased requirement for folate in pregnancy. Br J Obstet Gynaecol 108, 772–773.Google Scholar
54
Pfeiffer, CM, Sternberg, MR, Fazili, Z, et al. (2015) Folate status and concentrations of serum folate forms in the US population: national Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2011–2012. Br J Nutr 113, 1965–1977.Google Scholar
55
Pfeiffer, CM, Sternberg, MR, Fazili, Z, et al. (2015) Unmetabolized folic acid is detected in nearly all serum samples from US children, adolescents, and adults. J Nutr 145, 520–531.Google Scholar
56
Husebye, ESN, Wendel, AWK, Gilhus, NE, et al. (2022) Plasma unmetabolized folic acid in pregnancy and risk of autistic traits and language impairment in antiseizure medication-exposed children of women with epilepsy. Am J Clin Nutr 115, 1432–1440.Google Scholar
57
Caffrey, A, McNulty, H, Rollins, M, et al. (2021) Effects of maternal folic acid supplementation during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy on neurocognitive development in the child: an 11-year follow-up from a randomised controlled trial. BMC Med 19, 73.Google Scholar
58
Raghavan, R, Selhub, J, Paul, L, et al. (2020) A prospective birth cohort study on cord blood folate subtypes and risk of autism spectrum disorder. Am J Clin Nutr 112, 1304–1317.Google Scholar
59
Wang, S, Wei, J, Wang, D, et al. (2021) The association between folic acid supplementation, maternal folate during pregnancy and intelligence development in infants: a prospective cohort study. Food Sci Hum Wellness 10, 197–204.Google Scholar
60
Levine, SZ, Kodesh, A, Viktorin, A, et al. (2018) Association of maternal use of folic acid and multivitamin supplements in the periods before and during pregnancy with the risk of autism spectrum disorder in offspring. JAMA Psychiatry 75, 176–184.Google Scholar
61
Surén, P, Roth, C, Bresnahan, M, et al. (2013) Association between maternal use of folic acid supplements and risk of autism in children. JAMA 309, 570–577.Google Scholar
62
Schmidt, RJ, Tancredi, DJ, Ozonoff, S, et al. (2012) Maternal periconceptional folic acid intake and risk of autism spectrum disorders and developmental delay in the CHARGE (CHildhood Autism Risks from Genetics and Environment) case-control study. Am J Clin Nutr 96, 80–89.Google Scholar
63
Egorova, O, Myte, R, Schneede, J, et al. (2020) Maternal blood folate status during early pregnancy and occurrence of autism spectrum disorder in offspring: a study of 62 serum biomarkers. Mol Autism 11, 7.Google Scholar
64
McGowan, E, Hong, X, Selhub, J, et al. (2020) Association between folate metabolites and the development of food allergy in children. J Allergy Clin Immunol Pr 8, 132–140.Google Scholar
65
Whitrow, MJ, Moore, VM, Rumbold, AR, et al. (2009) Effect of supplemental folic acid in pregnancy on childhood asthma: a prospective birth cohort study. Am J Epidemiol 170, 1486–1493.Google Scholar
66
Best, KP, Green, TJ, Sulistyoningrum, DC, et al. (2021) Maternal late-pregnancy serum unmetabolized folic acid concentrations are not associated with infant allergic disease: a prospective cohort study. J Nutr 151, 1553–1560.Google Scholar
67
Magdelijns, FJH, Mommers, M, Penders, J, et al. (2011) Folic acid use in pregnancy and the development of atopy, asthma, and lung function in childhood. Pediatrics 128, e135–44.Google Scholar
68
Molloy, J, Collier, F, Saffery, R, et al. (2020) Folate levels in pregnancy and offspring food allergy and eczema. Pediatr Allergy Immunol 31, 38–46.Google Scholar
69
Henderson, AM, Tai, DC, Aleliunas, RE, et al. (2018) Maternal folic acid supplementation with vitamin B12 deficiency during pregnancy and lactation affects the metabolic health of adult female offspring but is dependent on offspring diet. FASEB J 32, 5039–5050.Google Scholar
70
Krishnaveni, GV, Veena, SR, Yajnik, C, et al. (2014) Association between maternal folate concentrations during pregnancy and insulin resistance in Indian children. Diabetologia 57, 110–121.Google Scholar
71
Yajnik, CS, Deshpande, SS, Jackson, AA, et al. (2008) Vitamin B12 and folate concentrations during pregnancy and insulin resistance in the offspring: the Pune Maternal Nutrition Study. Diabetologia 51, 29–38.Google Scholar
72
Xie, RH, Liu, YJ, Retnakaran, R, et al. (2016) Maternal folate status and obesity/insulin resistance in the offspring: a systematic review. Int J Obes 40, 1–9.Google Scholar
73
Pastor-Valero, M, Navarrete-Muoz, EM, Rebagliato, M, et al. (2011) Periconceptional folic acid supplementation and anthropometric measures at birth in a cohort of pregnant women in Valencia, Spain. Br J Nutr 105, 1352–1360.Google Scholar
74
Li, N, Li, Z, Ye, R, et al. (2017) Impact of periconceptional folic acid supplementation on low birth weight and small-for-gestational-age infants in China: a large prospective cohort study. J Pediatr 187, 105–110.Google Scholar
75
Crider, KS, Wang, A, Ling, H, et al. (2022) Supplementation and DNA methylation patterns in adolescent offspring. J Nutr 00, 1–8.Google Scholar
76
McGee, M, Bainbridge, S & Fontaine-Bisson, B (2018) A crucial role for maternal dietary methyl donor intake in epigenetic programming and fetal growth outcomes. Nutr Rev 76, 469–478.Google Scholar
77
Pfeiffer, CM, Johnson, CL, Jain, RB, et al. (2007) Trends in blood folate and vitamin B-12 concentrations in the United States, 1988–2004. Am J Clin Nutr 86, 718–727.Google Scholar
78
Colapinto, CK, O’Connor, DL & Tremblay, MS (2011) Folate status of the population in the Canadian Health Measures Survey. CMAJ 183, E100–E106.Google Scholar
79
Patti, MA, Braun, JM, Arbuckle, TE, et al. (2022) Associations between folic acid supplement use and folate status biomarkers in the first and third trimesters of pregnancy in the Maternal – Infant Research on Environmental Chemicals (MIREC) Pregnancy Cohort Study. Am J Clin Nutr 116, 1852–1863.Google Scholar
80
Masih, SP, Plumptre, L, Ly, A, et al. (2015) Pregnant Canadian women achieve recommended intakes of one-carbon nutrients through prenatal supplementation but the supplement composition, including choline, requires reconsideration. J Nutr 145, 1824–1834.Google Scholar
81
Dubois, L, Diasparra, M, Bedard, B, et al. (2017) Adequacy of nutritional intake from food and supplements in a cohort of pregnant women in Québec, Canada: the 3D Cohort Study (Design, Develop, Discover). Am J Clin Nutr 106, 541–548.Google Scholar
82
Plumptre, L, Masih, SP, Ly, A, et al. (2015) High concentrations of folate and unmetabolized folic acid in a cohort of pregnant Canadian women and umbilical cord blood. Am J Clin Nutr 102, 848–857.Google Scholar
83
Fayyaz, F, Wang, F, Jacobs, RL, et al. (2014) vitamin B12, and vitamin B6 status of a group of high socioeconomic status women in the Alberta Pregnancy Outcomes and Nutrition (APrON) cohort. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab 39, 1402–1408.Google Scholar
84
Stamm, RA, March, KM, Karakochuk, CD, et al. (2018) Lactating Canadian women consuming 1000 mcg folic acid daily have high circulating serum folic acid above a threshold concentration of serum total folate. J Nutr 148, 1–6.Google Scholar
85
Ledowsky, C, Mahimbo, A, Scarf, V, et al. (2022) Women taking a folic acid supplement in countries with mandatory food fortification programs may be exceeding the upper tolerable limit of folic acid: a systematic review. Nutrients 14, 2715.Google Scholar
86
Turck, D, Bohn, T, Castenmiller, J, et al. (2022) Conversion of calcium-L-methylfolate and (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid glucosamine salt into dietary folate equivalents. EFSA J 20, 7452.Google Scholar
87
Obeid, R, Schön, C, Pietrzik, K, et al. (2020) Pharmacokinetics of sodium and calcium salts of (6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid compared to folic acid and indirect comparison of the two salts. Nutrients 12, 3623.Google Scholar
88
EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) (2004) Opinion of the scientific panel on food additives, flavourings, processing aids and materials in contact with food on a request from the commission related to Calcium L-Methylfolate. EFSA J 135, 1–20.Google Scholar
89
Liu, Y, Green, TJ, Wong, P, et al. (2013) Microencapsulation of L-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid with ascorbate improves stability in baked bread products. J Agric Food Chem 61, 247–254.Google Scholar
90
Green, TJ, Liu, Y, Dadgar, S, et al. (2013) Wheat rolls fortified with microencapsulated L-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid or equimolar folic acid increase blood folate concentrations to a similar extent in healthy men and women. J Nutr 143, 867–871.Google Scholar
91
Kitts, DD & Liu, Y (2015) Encapsulation strategies to stabilize a natural folate, L-5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid, for food fortification practices. In Nanotechnology and Functional Foods: Effective Delivery of Bioactive Ingredients, 1st ed, pp. 142–157 [C Sabliov, H Chen & RY Yada, editors]. New Jersey, USA: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.Google Scholar
92
Ami, N, Bernstein, M, Boucher, F, et al. (2016) Folate and neural tube defects: the role of supplements and food fortification. Paediatr Child Heal 21, 145–149.Google Scholar
93
Park, Y, Dodd, KW, Kipnis, V, et al. (2018) Comparison of self-reported dietary intakes from the automated self-administered 24-h recall, 4-d food records, and food-frequency questionnaires against recovery biomarkers. Am J Clin Nutr 107, 80–93.Google Scholar
94
Green, TJ, Allen, OB & O’Connor, DL (1998) A three-day weighed food record and a semiquantitative food-frequency questionnaire are valid measures for assessing the folate and vitamin B-12 intakes of women aged 16–19 years. J Nutr 128, 1665–1671.Google Scholar
95
Sherwood, KL, Houghton, LA, Tarasuk, V, et al. (2006) One-third of pregnant and lactating women may not be meeting their folate requirements from diet alone based on mandated levels of folic acid fortification. J Nutr 136, 2820–2826.Google Scholar
96
Crider, KS, Bailey, LB & Berry, RJ (2011) Folic acid food fortification-its history, effect, concerns, and future directions. Nutrients 3, 370–384.Google Scholar
You have
Access
Open access
16
Cited by
This website uses cookies
By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyse site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts which includes personalised advertising on certain pages.Cookie notice
Cookie Settings Reject all Accept all cookies

LINKS
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#maincontent
https://www.cambridge.org/core/accessibility
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#
https://www.cambridge.org/core/login?ref=/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA
https://www.cambridge.org/academic
https://www.cambridge.org/core/register
https://www.cambridge.org/core/login
https://www.cambridge.org/core/
https://www.cambridge.org/core
https://www.cambridge.org/core/publications/journals
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/issue/1BDFC466195AD6443CCD9702F112982F
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#sec0
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#s1
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#s2
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#s3
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#s4
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#references-list
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters%5BauthorTerms%5D=Kelsey%20M.%20Cochrane&eventCode=SE-AU
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5628-2850
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters%5BauthorTerms%5D=Rajavel%20Elango&eventCode=SE-AU
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters%5BauthorTerms%5D=Angela%20M.%20Devlin&eventCode=SE-AU
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters%5BauthorTerms%5D=Chantal%20Mayer&eventCode=SE-AU
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters%5BauthorTerms%5D=Jennifer%20A.%20Hutcheon&eventCode=SE-AU
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters%5BauthorTerms%5D=Crystal%20D.%20Karakochuk&eventCode=SE-AU
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#authors-details
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#appTabs
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#article-tab
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#figures-tab
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#supplementary-materials-tab
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#metrics-tab
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#toc-list-mobile
https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/aop-cambridge-core/content/view/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA/S0007114523001733a.pdf/supplementation-with-6s-5-methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolised-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomised-tr.pdf
https://s100.copyright.com/AppDispatchServlet?publisherName=CUP&publication=BJN&title=Supplementation%20with%20(6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic%20acid%20appears%20as%20effective%20as%20folic%20acid%20in%20maintaining%20maternal%20folate%20status%20while%20reducing%20unmetabolised%20folic%20acid%20in%20maternal%20plasma%3A%20a%20randomised%20trial%20of%20pregnant%20women%20in%20Canada&publicationDate=10%20August%202023&author=Kelsey%20M.%20Cochrane%2C%20Rajavel%20Elango%2C%20Angela%20M.%20Devlin%2C%20Chantal%20Mayer%2C%20Jennifer%20A.%20Hutcheon%2C%20Crystal%20D.%20Karakochuk&copyright=%C2%A9%20Crown%20Copyright%20-%20The%20University%20of%20British%20Columbia%2C%202023.%20Published%20by%20Cambridge%20University%20Press%20on%20behalf%20of%20The%20Nutrition%20Society&contentID=10.1017%2FS0007114523001733&startPage=92&endPage=102&orderBeanReset=True&volumeNum=131&issueNum=1&oa=CC-BY
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters[keywords]=Folate
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters[keywords]=Folic%20acid
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters[keywords]=(6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic%20acid
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters[keywords]=Pregnancy
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?filters[keywords]=Micronutrients
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/volume/30F545818CB2D10FB2514965B6B2B54B
https://doi.org/10.1017/S0007114523001733
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#f1
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref1
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref2
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref3
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref5
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref6
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref9
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref10
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref12
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref13
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref14
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref15
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref16
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref17
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref11
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref18
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref19
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref21
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref22
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref25
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref26
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref27
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref28
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref29
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref30
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref31
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref32
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref8
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref33
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref34
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref35
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref36
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref37
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref38
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref42
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref43
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref44
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref45
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref46
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref47
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#f2
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#tbl1
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#tbl2
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#tbl3
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref48
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref49
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref50
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref51
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref24
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref23
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref52
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref53
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref54
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref55
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref56
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref63
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref64
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref68
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref69
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref72
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref73
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref74
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref58
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref65
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref59
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref66
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref75
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref57
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref60
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref62
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref76
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref77
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref78
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref79
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref81
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref82
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref84
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref85
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref86
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref87
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref88
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref89
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref90
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref91
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref92
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref93
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref94
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref80
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref95
https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA#ref96
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+and+vitamin+B12+metabolism%3A+overview+and+interaction+with+riboflavin%2C+vitamin+B6%2C+and+polymorphisms&author=Shane+B&publication+year=2008&journal=Food+Nutr+Bull&volume=29&pages=S5-16
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folic+acid%3A+nutritional+biochemistry%2C+molecular+biology%2C+and+role+in+disease+processes&author=Lucock+M&publication+year=2000&journal=Mol+Genet+Metab&volume=71&pages=121-138
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=One-carbon+metabolism+in+liver+health+and+disease&author=Ducker+G&author=Rabinowitz+J&publication+year=2017&journal=Cell+Metab&volume=25&pages=27-49
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Compartmentalization+of+mammalian+folate-mediated+one-carbon+metabolism&author=Tibbetts+AS&author=Appling+DR&publication+year=2010&journal=Annu+Rev+Nutr&volume=30&pages=57-81
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+and+fetal+programming%3A+a+play+in+epigenomics%3F&author=Gu%C3%A9ant+JL&author=Namour+F&author=Gu%C3%A9ant-Rodriguez+RM&publication+year=2013&journal=Trends+Endocrinol+Metab&volume=24&pages=279-289
https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/food-nutrition/healthy-eating/dietary-reference-intakes/tables/reference-values-vitamins-dietary-reference-intakes-tables-2005.html
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=Health+Canada+(2010)+Dietary+Reference+Intakes+(Internet).+Ottawa,+ON,+Canada.+https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/food-nutrition/healthy-eating/dietary-reference-intakes/tables/reference-values-vitamins-dietary-reference-intakes-tables-2005.html+(accessed+December+2022).
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+recommendations+for+pregnancy%2C+lactation%2C+and+infancy&author=Lamers+Y&publication+year=2011&journal=Ann+Nutr+Metab&volume=59&pages=32-37
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=SOGC+Clinical+Practice+Guideline%3A+pre-conception+folic+acid+and+multivitamin+supplementation+for+the+primary+and+secondary+prevention+of+neural+tube+defects+and+other+folic+acid-sensitive+congenital+anomalies&author=Douglas+Wilson+R&publication+year=2015&journal=J+Obs+Gynaecol+Can&volume=37&pages=534-549
https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/folicacid/recommendations.html
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=Centers+for+Disease+Control+and+Prevention+&+National+Center+on+Birth+Defects+and+Developmental+Disabilities+(2022)+Folic+Acid+Recommendations+(Internet).+Atlanta,+GA,+USA.+https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/folicacid/recommendations.html+(accessed+January+2023).
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Periconceptional+intake+of+folic+acid+among+low-risk+women+in+Canada%3A+summary+of+a+workshop+aiming+to+align+prenatal+folic+acid+supplement+composition+with+current+expert+guidelines&author=Lamers+Y&author=Macfarlane+AJ&author=O%E2%80%99Connor+DL&publication+year=2018&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=108&pages=1357-1368
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Perspective%3A+time+to+resolve+confusion+on+folate+amounts%2C+units%2C+and+forms+in+prenatal+supplements&author=Saldanha+LG&author=Dwyer+JT&author=Haggans+CJ&publication+year=2020&journal=Adv+Nutr&volume=11&pages=753-759
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Estimation+of+total+usual+dietary+intakes+of+pregnant+women+in+the+United+States&author=Bailey+RL&author=Pac+SG&author=Iii+VLF&publication+year=2019&journal=JAMA+Netw+Open&volume=2
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Knowledge+gaps+in+understanding+the+metabolic+and+clinical+effects+of+excess+folates%2Ffolic+acid%3A+a+summary%2C+and+perspectives%2C+from+an+NIH+workshop&author=Maruvada+P&author=Stover+PJ&author=Mason+JB&publication+year=2020&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=112&pages=1390-1403
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folic+acid+and+L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate%3A+comparison+of+clinical+pharmacokinetics+and+pharmacodynamics&author=Pietrzik+K&author=Bailey+L&author=Shane+B&publication+year=2010&journal=Clin+Pharmacokinet&volume=49&pages=535-548
https://dx.doi.org/10.3945/ajcn.113.080507
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folic+acid+handling+by+the+human+gut%3A+implications+for+food+fortification+and+supplementation&author=Patanwala+I&author=King+MJ&author=Barrett+DA&publication+year=2014&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=100&doi=10.3945%2Fajcn.113.080507&pages=593-599
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24944062
https://dx.doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0902072106
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=The+extremely+slow+and+variable+activity+of+dihydrofolate+reductase+in+human+liver+and+its+implications+for+high+folic+acid+intake&author=Bailey+SW&author=Ayling+JE&publication+year=2009&journal=PNAS&volume=106&doi=10.1073%2Fpnas.0902072106&pages=15424-15429
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19706381
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+dose+and+form+during+pregnancy+may+program+maternal+and+fetal+health+and+disease+risk&author=Pannia+E&author=Hammoud+R&author=Simonian+R&publication+year=2022&journal=Nutr+Rev&volume=80&pages=2187-2197
https://webprod.hc-sc.gc.ca/nhpid-bdipsn/atReq.do?atid=multi_vitmin_suppl
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=Health+Canada+(2022)+Multi-Vitamin/Mineral+Supplements+Monograph+(Internet).+Ottawa,+ON,+Canada.+pp.+1%E2%80%9371.+https://webprod.hc-sc.gc.ca/nhpid-bdipsn/atReq.do?atid=multi_vitmin_suppl+(accessed+December+2022).
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folic+acid+supplementation+for+the+prevention+of+neural+tube+defects+an+updated+evidence+report+and+systematic+review+for+the+US+preventive+services+task+force&author=Viswanathan+M&author=Treiman+KA&author=Kish-Doto+J&publication+year=2017&journal=JAMA&volume=317&pages=190-203
https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0140-6736(91)90133-A
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=MRC+Vitamin+Study+Research+Group+(1991)+Prevention+of+neural+tube+defects:+results+of+the+Medical+Research+Council+Vitamin+Study.+Lancet+338,+131%E2%80%93137.
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Prevention+of+the+first+occurrence+of+neural-tube+defects+by+periconceptional+vitamin+supplementation&author=Czeizel+AE&author=Dud%C3%A1s+I&publication+year=1992&journal=N+Engl+J+Med&volume=327&pages=1832-1835
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=The+pharmacokinetic+advantage+of+5-methyltetrahydrofolate+for+minimization+of+the+risk+for+birth+defects&author=Bailey+SW&author=Ayling+JE&publication+year=2018&journal=Sci+Rep&volume=8
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate+supplementation+increases+blood+folate+concentrations+to+a+greater+extent+than+folic+acid+supplementation+in+Malaysian+women&author=Henderson+AM&author=Aleliunas+RE&author=Loh+SP&publication+year=2018&journal=J+Nutr&volume=148&pages=855-890
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Red+blood+cell+folate+concentrations+increase+more+after+supplementation+with+(6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolate+than+with+folic+acid+in+women+of+childbearing+age&author=Lamers+Y&author=Prinz-langenohl+R&author=Bramswig+S&publication+year=2006&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=84&pages=156-161
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=(6S)-5-Methyltetrahydrofolate+is+at+least+as+effective+as+folic+acid+in+preventing+a+decline+in+blood+folate+concentrations+during+lactation&author=Houghton+LA&author=Sherwood+KL&author=Pawlosky+R&publication+year=2006&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=83&pages=842-850
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+and+human+reproduction&author=Tamura+T&author=Picciando+MF&publication+year=2006&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=83&pages=993-1016
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Pregnancy-induced+alterations+of+1-carbon+metabolism+and+significance+for+maternal+nutrition+requirements&author=Cochrane+KM&author=Williams+BA&author=Elango+R&publication+year=2022&journal=Nutr+Rev&volume=80&pages=1985-2001
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Expression+of+folate+transporters+in+human+placenta+and+implications+for+homocysteine+metabolism&author=Solanky+N&author=Requena+Jimenez+A&author=D%E2%80%99Souza+SW&publication+year=2010&journal=Placenta&volume=31&pages=134-143
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+receptors&author=Antony+AC&publication+year=1996&journal=Ann+Rev+Nutr&volume=16&pages=501-521
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Placental+folate+transport+and+binding+are+not+impaired+in+pregnancies+complicated+by+fetal+growth+restriction&author=Bisseling+TM&author=Steegers+EAP&author=van+den+Heuvel+JJM&publication+year=2004&journal=Placenta&volume=25&pages=588-593
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Is+natural+(6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic+acid+as+effective+as+synthetic+folic+acid+in+increasing+serum+and+red+blood+cell+folate+concentrations+during+pregnancy%3F+A+proof-of-concept+pilot+study&author=Cochrane+KM&author=Mayer+C&author=Devlin+AM&publication+year=2020&journal=Trials&volume=21
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Strategies+for+improving+recruitment+of+pregnant+women+to+clinical+research%3A+an+evaluation+of+social+media+v.+traditional+offline+methods&author=Cochrane+KM&author=Hutcheon+JA&author=Karakochuk+CD&publication+year=2022&journal=Digit+Heal&volume=8&pages=1-10
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Erythrocyte+folate+and+its+response+to+folic+acid+supplementation+is+assay+dependent+in+women&author=Clifford+AJ&author=Noceti+EM&author=Block-Joy+A&publication+year=2005&journal=J+Nutr&volume=135&pages=137-143
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Biomarkers+of+nutrition+for+development-Folate+review&author=Bailey+LB&author=Stover+PJ&author=McNulty+H&publication+year=2015&journal=J+Nutr&volume=145&pages=1636S-1680S
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Postprandial+serum+folic+acid+response+to+multiple+doses+of+folic+acid+in+fortified+bread&author=Sweeney+MR&author=McPartlin+J&author=Weir+DG&publication+year=2006&journal=Br+J+Nutr&volume=95&pages=145-151
https://wwwn.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhanes/2013-2014/labmethods/FOLATE_H_MET.pdf
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=Pirkle,+J+(2014)+CDC+Laboratory+Procedure+Manual,+Total+Folate,+Serum/Whole+Blood+Microbiological+Assay.+https://wwwn.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhanes/2013-2014/labmethods/FOLATE_H_MET.pdf+(accessed+August+2023).
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Harmonizing+the+calibrator+and+microorganism+used+in+the+folate+microbiological+assay+increases+the+comparability+of+serum+and+whole-blood+folate+results+in+a+CDC+round-robin+study&author=Zhang+M&author=Sternberg+MR&author=Pfeiffer+CM&publication+year=2018&journal=J+Nutr&volume=148&pages=807-817
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Determination+of+folate+vitamers+in+human+serum+by+stable-isotope-dilution+tandem+mass+spectrometry+and+comparison+with+radioassay+and+microbiologic+assay&author=Pfeiffer+C&author=Fazili+Z&author=McCoy+L&publication+year=2004&journal=Clin+Chem&volume=50&pages=423-432
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Accounting+for+an+isobaric+interference+allows+correct+determination+of+folate+vitamers+in+serum+by+isotope+dilution+liquid+chromatography-tandem+MS&author=Fazili+Z&author=Pfeiffer+CM&publication+year=2013&journal=J+Nutr&volume=143&pages=108-113
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Addition+of+exogenous+%CE%B3-glutamyl+hydrolase+eliminates+the+need+for+lengthy+incubation+of+whole-blood+lysate+for+quantitation+of+folate+vitamers+by+high-performance+liquid+chromatography-tandem+mass+spectrometry&author=Stamm+RA&author=Fazili+Z&author=Pfeiffer+CM&publication+year=2018&journal=Curr+Dev+Nutr&volume=2
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Two+international+round-robin+studies+showed+good+comparability+of+5-methyltetrahydrofolate+but+poor+comparability+of+folic+acid+measured+in+serum+by+different+high-performance+liquid+chromatography-tandem+mass+spectrometry+methods&author=Fazili+Z&author=Sternberg+MR&author=Paladugula+N&publication+year=2017&journal=J+Nutr&volume=147&pages=1815-1825
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Total+folate+and+unmetabolized+folic+acid+in+the+breast+milk+of+a+cross-section+of+Canadian+women&author=Page+R&author=Robichaud+A&author=Arbuckle+TE&publication+year=2017&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=105&pages=1101-1109
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Evidence+of+choline+depletion+and+reduced+betaine+and+dimethylglycine+with+increased+homocysteine+in+plasma+of+children+with+cystic+fibrosis&author=Innis+SM&author=Hasman+D&publication+year=2006&journal=J+Nutr&volume=136&pages=2226-2231
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=DNA+methylation+potential%3A+dietary+intake+and+blood+concentrations+of+one-carbon+metabolites+and+cofactors+in+rural+African+women&author=Dominguez-Salas+P&author=Moore+SE&author=Cole+D&publication+year=2013&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=97&pages=1217-1227
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Inhalation+of+diesel+exhaust+and+allergen+alters+human+bronchial+epithelium+DNA+methylation&author=Clifford+RL&author=Jones+MJ&author=MacIsaac+JL&publication+year=2017&journal=J+Allergy+Clin+Immunol&volume=139&pages=112-121
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Thinking+beyond+the+mean%3A+a+practical+guide+for+using+quantile+regression+methods+for+health+services+research&author=Cook+B&author=Manning+W&publication+year=2013&journal=Shanghai+Arch+Psychiatry&volume=25&pages=55-59
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=The+size+of+a+pilot+study+for+a+clinical+trial+should+be+calculated+in+relation+to+considerations+of+precision+and+efficiency&author=Sim+J&author=Lewis+M&publication+year=2012&journal=J+Clin+Epidemiol&volume=65&pages=301-308
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Low+serum+vitamin+B-12+concentrations+are+prevalent+in+a+cohort+of+pregnant+Canadian+women&author=Visentin+CE&author=Masih+SP&author=Plumptre+L&publication+year=2016&journal=J+Nutr&volume=146&pages=1035-1042
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Suboptimal+maternal+and+cord+plasma+pyridoxal+5%E2%80%B2+phosphate+concentrations+are+uncommon+in+a+cohort+of+Canadian+pregnant+women+and+newborn+infants&author=Plumptre+L&author=Masih+SP&author=Sohn+KJ&publication+year=2018&journal=Matern+Child+Nutr&volume=14
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Applying+inappropriate+cutoffs+leads+to+misinterpretation+of+folate+status+in+the+US+population&author=Pfeiffer+CM&author=Sternberg+MR&author=Hamner+HC&publication+year=2016&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=104&pages=1607-1615
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+levels+and+neural+tube+defects&author=Daly+LE&author=Kirke+P&author=Molloy+A&publication+year=1995&journal=JAMA&volume=274&pages=1698-1702
https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0140-6736(93)90007-4
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Accelerated+folate+breakdown+in+pregnancy&author=McPartlin+J&author=Weir+D&author=Halligan+A&publication+year=1993&journal=Lancet&volume=341&doi=10.1016%2F0140-6736(93)90007-4&pages=148-149
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8093747
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=The+relationship+between+increased+folate+catabolism+and+the+increased+requirement+for+folate+in+pregnancy&author=Higgins+J&author=Quinlivin+E&author=McPartlin+J&publication+year=2001&journal=Br+J+Obstet+Gynaecol&volume=108&pages=772-773
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+status+and+concentrations+of+serum+folate+forms+in+the+US+population%3A+national+Health+and+Nutrition+Examination+Survey+2011%E2%80%932012&author=Pfeiffer+CM&author=Sternberg+MR&author=Fazili+Z&publication+year=2015&journal=Br+J+Nutr&volume=113&pages=1965-1977
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Unmetabolized+folic+acid+is+detected+in+nearly+all+serum+samples+from+US+children%2C+adolescents%2C+and+adults&author=Pfeiffer+CM&author=Sternberg+MR&author=Fazili+Z&publication+year=2015&journal=J+Nutr&volume=145&pages=520-531
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Plasma+unmetabolized+folic+acid+in+pregnancy+and+risk+of+autistic+traits+and+language+impairment+in+antiseizure+medication-exposed+children+of+women+with+epilepsy&author=Husebye+ESN&author=Wendel+AWK&author=Gilhus+NE&publication+year=2022&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=115&pages=1432-1440
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Effects+of+maternal+folic+acid+supplementation+during+the+second+and+third+trimesters+of+pregnancy+on+neurocognitive+development+in+the+child%3A+an+11-year+follow-up+from+a+randomised+controlled+trial&author=Caffrey+A&author=McNulty+H&author=Rollins+M&publication+year=2021&journal=BMC+Med&volume=19
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=A+prospective+birth+cohort+study+on+cord+blood+folate+subtypes+and+risk+of+autism+spectrum+disorder&author=Raghavan+R&author=Selhub+J&author=Paul+L&publication+year=2020&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=112&pages=1304-1317
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=The+association+between+folic+acid+supplementation%2C+maternal+folate+during+pregnancy+and+intelligence+development+in+infants%3A+a+prospective+cohort+study&author=Wang+S&author=Wei+J&author=Wang+D&publication+year=2021&journal=Food+Sci+Hum+Wellness&volume=10&pages=197-204
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Association+of+maternal+use+of+folic+acid+and+multivitamin+supplements+in+the+periods+before+and+during+pregnancy+with+the+risk+of+autism+spectrum+disorder+in+offspring&author=Levine+SZ&author=Kodesh+A&author=Viktorin+A&publication+year=2018&journal=JAMA+Psychiatry&volume=75&pages=176-184
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Association+between+maternal+use+of+folic+acid+supplements+and+risk+of+autism+in+children&author=Sur%C3%A9n+P&author=Roth+C&author=Bresnahan+M&publication+year=2013&journal=JAMA&volume=309&pages=570-577
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Maternal+periconceptional+folic+acid+intake+and+risk+of+autism+spectrum+disorders+and+developmental+delay+in+the+CHARGE+(CHildhood+Autism+Risks+from+Genetics+and+Environment)+case-control+study&author=Schmidt+RJ&author=Tancredi+DJ&author=Ozonoff+S&publication+year=2012&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=96&pages=80-89
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Maternal+blood+folate+status+during+early+pregnancy+and+occurrence+of+autism+spectrum+disorder+in+offspring%3A+a+study+of+62+serum+biomarkers&author=Egorova+O&author=Myte+R&author=Schneede+J&publication+year=2020&journal=Mol+Autism&volume=11
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Association+between+folate+metabolites+and+the+development+of+food+allergy+in+children&author=McGowan+E&author=Hong+X&author=Selhub+J&publication+year=2020&journal=J+Allergy+Clin+Immunol+Pr&volume=8&pages=132-140
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Effect+of+supplemental+folic+acid+in+pregnancy+on+childhood+asthma%3A+a+prospective+birth+cohort+study&author=Whitrow+MJ&author=Moore+VM&author=Rumbold+AR&publication+year=2009&journal=Am+J+Epidemiol&volume=170&pages=1486-1493
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Maternal+late-pregnancy+serum+unmetabolized+folic+acid+concentrations+are+not+associated+with+infant+allergic+disease%3A+a+prospective+cohort+study&author=Best+KP&author=Green+TJ&author=Sulistyoningrum+DC&publication+year=2021&journal=J+Nutr&volume=151&pages=1553-1560
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folic+acid+use+in+pregnancy+and+the+development+of+atopy%2C+asthma%2C+and+lung+function+in+childhood&author=Magdelijns+FJH&author=Mommers+M&author=Penders+J&publication+year=2011&journal=Pediatrics&volume=128&pages=e135-44
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+levels+in+pregnancy+and+offspring+food+allergy+and+eczema&author=Molloy+J&author=Collier+F&author=Saffery+R&publication+year=2020&journal=Pediatr+Allergy+Immunol&volume=31&pages=38-46
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Maternal+folic+acid+supplementation+with+vitamin+B12+deficiency+during+pregnancy+and+lactation+affects+the+metabolic+health+of+adult+female+offspring+but+is+dependent+on+offspring+diet&author=Henderson+AM&author=Tai+DC&author=Aleliunas+RE&publication+year=2018&journal=FASEB+J&volume=32&pages=5039-5050
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Association+between+maternal+folate+concentrations+during+pregnancy+and+insulin+resistance+in+Indian+children&author=Krishnaveni+GV&author=Veena+SR&author=Yajnik+C&publication+year=2014&journal=Diabetologia&volume=57&pages=110-121
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Vitamin+B12+and+folate+concentrations+during+pregnancy+and+insulin+resistance+in+the+offspring%3A+the+Pune+Maternal+Nutrition+Study&author=Yajnik+CS&author=Deshpande+SS&author=Jackson+AA&publication+year=2008&journal=Diabetologia&volume=51&pages=29-38
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Maternal+folate+status+and+obesity%2Finsulin+resistance+in+the+offspring%3A+a+systematic+review&author=Xie+RH&author=Liu+YJ&author=Retnakaran+R&publication+year=2016&journal=Int+J+Obes&volume=40&pages=1-9
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Periconceptional+folic+acid+supplementation+and+anthropometric+measures+at+birth+in+a+cohort+of+pregnant+women+in+Valencia%2C+Spain&author=Pastor-Valero+M&author=Navarrete-Muoz+EM&author=Rebagliato+M&publication+year=2011&journal=Br+J+Nutr&volume=105&pages=1352-1360
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Impact+of+periconceptional+folic+acid+supplementation+on+low+birth+weight+and+small-for-gestational-age+infants+in+China%3A+a+large+prospective+cohort+study&author=Li+N&author=Li+Z&author=Ye+R&publication+year=2017&journal=J+Pediatr&volume=187&pages=105-110
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Supplementation+and+DNA+methylation+patterns+in+adolescent+offspring&author=Crider+KS&author=Wang+A&author=Ling+H&publication+year=2022&journal=J+Nutr&volume=00&pages=1-8
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=A+crucial+role+for+maternal+dietary+methyl+donor+intake+in+epigenetic+programming+and+fetal+growth+outcomes&author=McGee+M&author=Bainbridge+S&author=Fontaine-Bisson+B&publication+year=2018&journal=Nutr+Rev&volume=76&pages=469-478
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Trends+in+blood+folate+and+vitamin+B-12+concentrations+in+the+United+States%2C+1988%E2%80%932004&author=Pfeiffer+CM&author=Johnson+CL&author=Jain+RB&publication+year=2007&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=86&pages=718-727
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+status+of+the+population+in+the+Canadian+Health+Measures+Survey&author=Colapinto+CK&author=O%E2%80%99Connor+DL&author=Tremblay+MS&publication+year=2011&journal=CMAJ&volume=183&pages=E100-E106
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Associations+between+folic+acid+supplement+use+and+folate+status+biomarkers+in+the+first+and+third+trimesters+of+pregnancy+in+the+Maternal+%E2%80%93+Infant+Research+on+Environmental+Chemicals+(MIREC)+Pregnancy+Cohort+Study&author=Patti+MA&author=Braun+JM&author=Arbuckle+TE&publication+year=2022&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=116&pages=1852-1863
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Pregnant+Canadian+women+achieve+recommended+intakes+of+one-carbon+nutrients+through+prenatal+supplementation+but+the+supplement+composition%2C+including+choline%2C+requires+reconsideration&author=Masih+SP&author=Plumptre+L&author=Ly+A&publication+year=2015&journal=J+Nutr&volume=145&pages=1824-1834
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Adequacy+of+nutritional+intake+from+food+and+supplements+in+a+cohort+of+pregnant+women+in+Qu%C3%A9bec%2C+Canada%3A+the+3D+Cohort+Study+(Design%2C+Develop%2C+Discover)&author=Dubois+L&author=Diasparra+M&author=Bedard+B&publication+year=2017&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=106&pages=541-548
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=High+concentrations+of+folate+and+unmetabolized+folic+acid+in+a+cohort+of+pregnant+Canadian+women+and+umbilical+cord+blood&author=Plumptre+L&author=Masih+SP&author=Ly+A&publication+year=2015&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=102&pages=848-857
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=vitamin+B12%2C+and+vitamin+B6+status+of+a+group+of+high+socioeconomic+status+women+in+the+Alberta+Pregnancy+Outcomes+and+Nutrition+(APrON)+cohort&author=Fayyaz+F&author=Wang+F&author=Jacobs+RL&publication+year=2014&journal=Appl+Physiol+Nutr+Metab&volume=39&pages=1402-1408
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Lactating+Canadian+women+consuming+1000+mcg+folic+acid+daily+have+high+circulating+serum+folic+acid+above+a+threshold+concentration+of+serum+total+folate&author=Stamm+RA&author=March+KM&author=Karakochuk+CD&publication+year=2018&journal=J+Nutr&volume=148&pages=1-6
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Women+taking+a+folic+acid+supplement+in+countries+with+mandatory+food+fortification+programs+may+be+exceeding+the+upper+tolerable+limit+of+folic+acid%3A+a+systematic+review&author=Ledowsky+C&author=Mahimbo+A&author=Scarf+V&publication+year=2022&journal=Nutrients&volume=14
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Conversion+of+calcium-L-methylfolate+and+(6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic+acid+glucosamine+salt+into+dietary+folate+equivalents&author=Turck+D&author=Bohn+T&author=Castenmiller+J&publication+year=2022&journal=EFSA+J&volume=20
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Pharmacokinetics+of+sodium+and+calcium+salts+of+(6S)-5-methyltetrahydrofolic+acid+compared+to+folic+acid+and+indirect+comparison+of+the+two+salts&author=Obeid+R&author=Sch%C3%B6n+C&author=Pietrzik+K&publication+year=2020&journal=Nutrients&volume=12
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=EFSA+(European+Food+Safety+Authority)+(2004)+Opinion+of+the+scientific+panel+on+food+additives,+flavourings,+processing+aids+and+materials+in+contact+with+food+on+a+request+from+the+commission+related+to+Calcium+L-Methylfolate.+EFSA+J+135,+1%E2%80%9320.
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Microencapsulation+of+L-5-methyltetrahydrofolic+acid+with+ascorbate+improves+stability+in+baked+bread+products&author=Liu+Y&author=Green+TJ&author=Wong+P&publication+year=2013&journal=J+Agric+Food+Chem&volume=61&pages=247-254
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Wheat+rolls+fortified+with+microencapsulated+L-5-methyltetrahydrofolic+acid+or+equimolar+folic+acid+increase+blood+folate+concentrations+to+a+similar+extent+in+healthy+men+and+women&author=Green+TJ&author=Liu+Y&author=Dadgar+S&publication+year=2013&journal=J+Nutr&volume=143&pages=867-871
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Nanotechnology+and+Functional+Foods%3A+Effective+Delivery+of+Bioactive+Ingredients&author=Kitts+DD&author=Liu+Y&publication+year=2015&pages=142-157
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folate+and+neural+tube+defects%3A+the+role+of+supplements+and+food+fortification&author=Ami+N&author=Bernstein+M&author=Boucher+F&publication+year=2016&journal=Paediatr+Child+Heal&volume=21&pages=145-149
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Comparison+of+self-reported+dietary+intakes+from+the+automated+self-administered+24-h+recall%2C+4-d+food+records%2C+and+food-frequency+questionnaires+against+recovery+biomarkers&author=Park+Y&author=Dodd+KW&author=Kipnis+V&publication+year=2018&journal=Am+J+Clin+Nutr&volume=107&pages=80-93
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=A+three-day+weighed+food+record+and+a+semiquantitative+food-frequency+questionnaire+are+valid+measures+for+assessing+the+folate+and+vitamin+B-12+intakes+of+women+aged+16%E2%80%9319+years&author=Green+TJ&author=Allen+OB&author=O%E2%80%99Connor+DL&publication+year=1998&journal=J+Nutr&volume=128&pages=1665-1671
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=One-third+of+pregnant+and+lactating+women+may+not+be+meeting+their+folate+requirements+from+diet+alone+based+on+mandated+levels+of+folic+acid+fortification&author=Sherwood+KL&author=Houghton+LA&author=Tarasuk+V&publication+year=2006&journal=J+Nutr&volume=136&pages=2820-2826
https://scholar.google.com/scholar_lookup?title=Folic+acid+food+fortification-its+history%2C+effect%2C+concerns%2C+and+future+directions&author=Crider+KS&author=Bailey+LB&author=Berry+RJ&publication+year=2011&journal=Nutrients&volume=3&pages=370-384
https://static.cambridge.org/content/id/urn:cambridge.org:id:article:S0007114523001733/resource/name/S0007114523001733sup001.docx
https://static.cambridge.org/content/id/urn:cambridge.org:id:article:S0007114523001733/resource/name/S0007114523001733sup002.docx
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&lr=&cites=https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA
https://www.cambridge.org/
https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/accessibility
https://www.cambridge.org/core/help/FAQs
https://www.cambridge.org/core/legal-notices/terms
https://withdraw.cambridge.org/hc/en-gb/requests/new
https://www.cambridge.org/engage/coe/public-dashboard
https://www.cambridge.org/highereducation/
https://www.cambridge.org/core/search?aggs%5BproductTypes%5D%5Bfilters%5D=BOOK
https://www.cambridge.org/core/publications/elements
https://www.cambridge.org/highereducation/search?aggs=%24productTypes%24BOOK%3Atrue%3B%3B
https://www.cambridge.org/highereducation/search?aggs=%24productTypes%24COURSEWARE%3Atrue%3B%3B
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLTK8KRW19hUVucVRHbIx73oLKUro8HXt0
https://twitter.com/CambridgeCore
https://www.facebook.com/CambridgeCore
https://www.instagram.com/cambridgeuniversitypress/
https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/11096649
https://www.cambridge.org/about-us/rights-permissions/
https://www.cambridge.org/about-us/legal-notices/copyright/
https://www.cambridge.org/about-us/legal-notices/privacy-policy/
https://www.cambridge.org/about-us/legal-notices/terms-use
https://www.cambridge.org/about-us/legal-notices/cookies-policy/
https://www.cambridge.org/core/help
https://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html/ref=kinw_myk_wl_ln?ie=UTF8&nodeId=200767340#fees
https://www.cambridge.org/legal/cookies
https://www.onetrust.com/products/cookie-consent/

IMAGES
https://static.cambridge.org/covers/BJN_0_0_0/british-journal-of-nutrition.jpg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/save-pdf-icon.080470e.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/pdf-download-icon.c7fb40c.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/dropbox-icon.3d57046.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/google-drive-icon.a50193b.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/close-icon.194b28a.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/share-icon.cbcfad8.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/cite-icon.44eaaa4.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/rights-icon.d4a677c.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/crossmark-logo.61d5da3.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/license-cc-icon.e3a74ed.svg
https://www.cambridge.org/core/page-component/img/license-by-icon.33e212c.svg
https://assets.crossref.org/logo/crossref-logo-100.png
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/a/a9/Google_Scholar_logo_2015.PNG
https://cdn-ukwest.onetrust.com/logos/b1267e56-9bec-4ebe-a985-519ebdee1430/1d68d9f9-4078-44bb-9419-6d02957faf01/128a5669-6106-4f93-8945-4652309c3cdc/Cambridge_Landscape_Logo_POS_RGB.png
https://cdn-ukwest.onetrust.com/logos/static/powered_by_logo.svg
end https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA

FULL TEXT FOR URL https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/british-journal-of-nutrition/article/supplementation-with-6s5methyltetrahydrofolic-acid-appears-as-effective-as-folic-acid-in-maintaining-maternal-folate-status-while-reducing-unmetabolized-folic-acid-in-maternal-plasma-a-randomized-trial-of-pregnant-women-in-canada/A07396C9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA SAVED TO ./.webcats/https-www-cambridge-org-c-9FBD5A56E4B3D6BCB5D465CBA-b323793.txt
